{'text': "Dear Jacqueline, \nWould you like to come to the cinema with me after school today? We can go to see Pocahontas at the ABC cinema. The film starts at 6 o'clock. Shall we meet outside the cinema? \nLove, \nIsabella\n\nDear Isabella,\nI am very sorry but I can't go to the cinema this evening. My mother has some work, and I am going to cook dinner. Why don't you invite Karen to go? I hope you like the film. You can tell me about it tomorrow.\nLove,\nJacqueline\n\n", 'label': '1'}
{'text': "Piano players - when they were young\n\nIvan Petrov\nIvan was born on a farm in Russia, but from the age of twelve to eighteen he studied in Poland. His first music teacher couldn't play the piano but taught him and his sister songs from the opera. His mother began to teach him the piano when he was six. At ten, he decided that he wanted to write music too, and he soon started on his first song.\nOleg Gagarin\nOleg was the youngest of five children and when he was four years old his father, who liked playing the piano, taught him some traditional Russian music. When he was six, he started having lessons with a piano teacher who lived in the same city. Oleg soon began to win prizes for his piano playing. At the age of fourteen, he went to a music college in Austria for two years. Later, he returned home to Russia.\nJosef Heptmann\nJosef's father was German but he taught music in Poland where Josef was born. The family moved to Germany when Josef was two, and a year later he started playing the piano.\nHe gave his first concert when he was six. At ten, he gave fifty-two concerts in two months during a trip to England! Josef always liked music but he was also interested in physics and languages. He is too busy now but one day he would like to write his own music.", 'label': '1'}
{'text': 'THE OSTRICH \n\nThe ostrich is the largest bird in the world, and an adult can be more than 90 kilos. Most wild ostriches live in southern Africa, but there are only a few of them left. Like all birds, ostriches have wings, but they cannot fly. They use their wings to help them turn when they are running. Ostriches can run very fast, from 65 to 90 kilometres an hour, so it is very difficult for other animals to catch them. \nBaby ostriches are the same size as chickens and take about 3 years to become adults. Ostriches eat plants and can live for many days without water. \n\n', 'label': '1'}
{'text': "Snowboarding\n\nVictoria Jamieson from Britain started snowboarding at 20. She is now 23 and has won many competitions in this sport. We spoke to her when she was at a snowboarding competition last week in Switzerland and asked her why she started the sport.\n'I've always liked all kinds of sports, especially skiing, and it seemed natural to start snowboarding. It doesn't take long to learn and you can become really good in a few months.'\nWe asked her if she had to do a lot of practice. 'Well, in winter I snowboard in the mountains every day from 8.30 a.m. until 4 p.m. I also run and go biking. But I just love doing it all! I like the competitions and being in the mountains. It's so beautiful. But free-riding, that's doing what you want when you're not in a competition, is the best thing in the world for me.'\nWe asked her what is important when you're learning. 'You can learn quickly but you need lessons. It's also important to have the right clothes so you don't get wet because, to begin with, you spend a lot of time falling down!'", 'label': '1'}
{'text': "Memo \n\nTo: All staff \nSubject: Holidays\nFrom: D Brown \nDate: 22.2.02 \n\nI am planning the holidays for next year. Please tell me when you would like to take your holiday. If possible, could you give me two dates? Please give me your answer by the end of the month.\nThank you.\nD Brown\n\nMemo\n\nTo: D Brown\nSubject: Holidays\nFrom: J Green\nDate: 23.2.02 \n\nCould I take two weeks' holiday in July? I'd like to take the first two weeks, but if that is not possible, the last two weeks will be OK. Also, can I take three extra days in the first week of December?\nJohn", 'label': '1'}
{'text': "Corryvale Farm\n\nCorryvale Farm is in the west of England. Stephen and Jenny Blackler keep cows and chickens and sell milk and eggs. But most of their money comes from Jenny's sheep.\nShe has 50 sheep and each one has enough wool for six sweaters. Every six months, Stephen cuts this wool off the sheep so they won't get too warm. Five years ago, Jenny made some sweaters with the wool and tried to sell them at country markets. But it was summer and the weather was hot so people didn't want to buy sweaters. She then made some socks. Everybody loved them because they were cheap, strong and easy to wash.\nThat's how Jenny's business started. At first she made the socks at home, but soon she had thousands of customers so she had to send the wool to a factory, where all the socks are now made on machines. There are six colours, five sizes for all ages, and different socks for walkers, sportsmen and skiers. Jenny is busiest at Christmas because Corryvale socks are a favourite present. On the walls of Jenny's office, there are lots of letters from happy customers all over the world.", 'label': '1'}
{'text': "Dear Mrs Brian,\n\nI am sorry but I can't come to your class any more because I have to return to my country. My sister is going to get married next month. I want to go shopping with her to choose a dress. My parents are going to make a big meal for the guests and there will be a lot of work in the kitchen.\nI'm sorry I will leave the English class. You are a very good teacher. Please say goodbye to the other students for me.\nThanks again.\nBest wishes,\nSoraya\n", 'label': '1'}
{'text': 'Mount Kilimanjaro \n\nMount Kilimanjaro is the highest mountain in Africa. Many people have climbed Kilimanjaro, from a seven-year-old boy to an 87-year-old man. \nThere are several paths to the top. People think that the five-kilometre Marangu path is the easiest. It takes about five days and is very popular with tourists. \nOnly half of the climbers who try to climb Kilimanjaro get to the top. This is often because the weather can change so suddenly. At the beginning, it can be hot and wet but when climbers reach the top, they find ice and snow and the temperature may be below 20 degrees. Climbers need to pack both sunglasses and warm clothes! ', 'label': '1'}
{'text': 'Dear Mike, \nI am sorry you could not come to my party yesterday. Jon told me you had a very bad cold and you decided to stay in bed. Are you feeling better now? \nIt was a very good party; the nicest I have ever had! Lots of my friends were there and they gave me some lovely presents. I will tell you more about the party when you come to school on Monday. \nLove, \nLorenzo\n\n', 'label': '1'}
{'text': "Line dancing \n\nThousands of people in Britain have a new hobby -- line dancing. In almost every town, you will find clubs and classes for this new activity. \n'Line dancing is easy to learn. If you have two feet and can walk, then you can do it!' Fiona Lever, a teacher, says. 'You don't need a partner because you dance in groups. It's the best way to make new friends. In my classes, there are young and old people. The boys like it because they can make a lot of noise with their feet during the dances!' \nWhen did line dancing begin? Most people think it started about fifteen years ago when American country music became famous in Britain. \n", 'label': '1'}
{'text': "A great idea!\n\nFrazer and Peter are two 14-year-old boys who grew up in the same small Canadian town.\nThey have always been friends and classmates. Like all their other friends, they enjoy going fishing or swimming at weekends. But for the last few months, they've spent every weekend in Peter's room working on his laptop. This isn't because they have a lot of homework. They have made a new computer word game.\nThe idea for the game came from Frazer's little brother, Kevin, who had problems with his reading. Kevin learns words more easily by seeing pictures and hearing information than he does by reading. His brother wanted to help. Frazer and Peter worked together for over 200 hours to make a computer game and now it's ready to use. It's a speaking and picture game. For example, if you look at the word 'hat', there's a drawing of a hat next to it and you can hear Peter saying 'Hat! Hat!' at the same time.\nThe two boys have won a lot of prizes for their computer game and it will soon be on sale around the world. Many schools are interested in buying it.", 'label': '1'}
{'text': "Dinosaurs\n\nNo one has ever seen a dinosaur. The last dinosaur died about 60 million years ago, a long time before there were any people on the earth. Nobody knows for sure why they all died.\nThe nearest living relatives of dinosaurs are birds.\nDinosaurs didn't all look the same. There were more than 5000 kinds. Some were very small, but others were giants. The largest were bigger than any other animals that ever lived on land. The Brontosaurus, for example, was twenty metres long, and it ate plants. The Tyrannosaurus Rex was not as big, but it was stronger. It had sharp teeth for eating meat. Also it could run fast because it had long back legs.", 'label': '1'}
{'text': "From: Greg\n\nTo: Anna\n\nHi Anna,\nI'm not having a very good week!\nYesterday my team had a volleyball match, but we lost. The other team played much better than we did! Then my friend Jeff, who lives in Australia, telephoned with bad news. He can't come to stay with us during the holidays because he's got a summer job. We can't go camping together now. And this morning, my sister got up late so she rode my bike to school! She didn't tell me she needed to use it. I'm really angry with her. \nI hope you have some good news! Write back today if you can.\nGreg\n", 'label': '1'}
{'text': "Bollywood\n\n'Bollywood', which is the name of the film industry in Mumbai, India, makes almost 1,000 films a year. Since making its first film in 1913, Bollywood has made over 29,000 films. This is a much higher number than the USA and means it is the biggest film industry in the world. Most Indians like watching films better than any other free-time activity and ten million of them go to the cinema every day. Bollywood films tell romantic love stories, and singing and dancing are an important part of every film. Indian films are also enjoyed outside India. Last year, Bollywood made over $500 million by selling its films to other countries.\nIndian actors make more films each year than American actors in Hollywood, but they are not paid as much. This is why most Bollywood films only cost about $2 million to make. A Hollywood film is never made for under $5 million.\nMost Bollywood actors are young. They work hard but only for a few years. Amitabh Bachchan, who some people say is India's greatest actor, is different. He has been the star of more than 140 films during an acting career of almost 40 years.", 'label': '1'}
{'text': 'TO ALL STUDENTS:\n\nWould you like to come on a camping trip this weekend?\nWe are going to go to the forest in the school bus and we will stay at a camp-site from Friday to Sunday. It has hot showers and a small shop and you can rent bicycles there.\nThe trip costs PS25. It is very cold there at night, so you should take warm clothes and you will need to wear strong shoes. \nIf you want yo come, tell me today.\nAhmed,\nStudent Secretary\n\n', 'label': '1'}
{'text': "Big cats \n\nThere are many different kinds of cats. They are different in size and they do not look or act the same. \nTigers are the biggest cats. From head to tail they can be 3.7m long. Most cats don't like water, but tigers will often lie in a pool of water when it is hot! \nLions are the only cats that stay together in large family groups. Several lions may work together to get food for the group. They usually live in flat, open countryside where they can see a long way and easily follow other animals. \nAll cats need good eyes, because they catch smaller animals for their food. They also need to be fast, and very strong. ", 'label': '1'}
{'text': "John Pickering\n\nIn a park in a small town in central England, John Pickering cuts the grass and waters the flowers. But all last week he was in Tokyo and millions of Japanese people watched the thirty-five-year-old gardener on television because John is the number one singer in Japan at the moment. John visited Japan a few months ago to sing in dance clubs in Osaka and Nagoya. A disc jockey heard his songs and played them on his radio show. Hundreds of young people phoned the radio and asked the disc jockey to play the songs once more.\nJohn, who uses the name Jon Otis when he sings in Japan, is not going to stop working in the park in England. He does not know yet how much he will earn from his music. 'I must keep my job in the park,' he says. 'I still have to pay my bills!' The other gardeners do not know that he is famous in Japan. They've never even heard him sing.\nJohn's wife, Denise, a hospital worker, says, 'This will not change the way we live. I only know John Pickering, not Jon Otis!'", 'label': '1'}
{'text': "Dear Lynne and Tony, \n\nI'm writing to say thank you for the two nights I stayed in \nyour lovely home. It was good to see you again. \nHere are the photographs of your children that you asked for. They're good photos, aren't they? I hope you like them. I really love my new camera. \nI am going to visit my sister in New York next week. I will take a lot of photos there, too. I haven't seen my sister for a long time.\nThanks again. \nLove,\nRoy \n\n", 'label': '1'}
{'text': 'The history of horse racing \n\nFrom the first history books ever written, it is clear that horse racing has\nalways been an important sport. It started in Central Asia about 4,500 years ago and was a favourite sport in both Greek and Roman times. \nModern horse racing began when Arab horses were brought to Europe in the 12th century. At first, races were long and between just two horses, but at the beginning of the 18th century this changed. Races became much shorter and had several horses running against each other. \nToday, horse racing is watched by more people than any other sport in the USA, except baseball. It is also very popular in other parts of the world. \n', 'label': '1'}
{'text': 'Dear Sir, \nI read your advertisement for English courses in the newspaper. I would like to have some more information. How much does a course cost? Also, how long is each course and when does the next course start?\nYours, \nMaria Gonzalez \n \n\nDear Ms. Gonzalez, \nThank you for your letter. Our next course starts in three weeks, on Monday, 9 May. This is a 6-week course and it costs PS150. If you prefer to begin in June, we have another 10-week course for PS200. I hope that is the information you want. \nYours, \nDavid May \n\n \n\n', 'label': '1'}
{'text': "Madame Tussaud's\n\nOne very famous place for tourists in London is Madame Tussaud's museum. Here people can see figures of famous people made of wax.\nMadame Tussaud was born in France in 1761. Her uncle, a doctor, made wax figures of people. He opened a museum of these figures in Paris. Marie helped him in his work.\nIn 1789,during the French Revolution, Marie was sent to prison. Here she had to copy the heads of famous people when they were dead, including Queen Marie Antoinette's.\nIn 1795,Marie married Francois Tussaud and in 1802 she came to London with her wax figures. Here she opened a museum and her figures can still be seen today.", 'label': '1'}
{'text': "ICE-FISHING\n\nIf you drive north from Toronto for three hours, you come to Lake Nipissing. In winter, the lake becomes ice, and thousands of Canadian fishermen travel there each weekend. They build little houses of wood on the ice and paint them in bright colours. Then they sit inside to catch the fish that swim under the ice.\nBob Marvisch has come here at this time of year for twenty-five years. 'You need clothes that are light but warm: two pairs of socks and gloves, several thin sweaters and a snow suit on top. Catching the fish. is easy,' he says. 'First you break the ice and make a small round hole in it. Next you take a fishing line and put some bread on it. Then you put the line through the hole and into the water. You pull the line up when the fish eat the bread. They are between ten and twenty centimetres long. Some people like to eat them, but when I have caught three or four fish, I prefer to have some chocolate or other snack! Today I have caught twenty-five! It's a great sport and you can meet some nice people here!'", 'label': '1'}
{'text': "23 Oak Avenue Manchester\n\nDear Sir or Madam,\nI would like a room at your hotel for three nights from September 15th to 17th.\nI'd like a single room with a shower. I also need a telephone in my room. Please can I have a quiet room on the ground floor?\nI am going to drive to the hotel. Is there a hotel car park?\nI will arrive at about 10.30 p.m. What time does the restaurant close in the evening? If possible, I would like a meal when I arrive.\nThank you for your help.\nYours faithfully,\nMark Jones", 'label': '1'}
{'text': 'Parrots \n\nPerhaps you have seen these beautiful birds, with their lovely colours and long tails in the forest or in the zoo. Parrots are found in countries like Brazil, Australia and India. They usually live in large groups and because they like to eat fruit, they are sometimes a problem for farmers. \nThere are many different kinds of parrots, but they all have strong beaks and feet, which they use for climbing and holding food. The biggest birds can live for up to 80 years. \nThey are very noisy, but they are clever birds and it is easy to teach them to talk. Some zoos have parrot shows, where you can see the birds doing things they have learned. \n', 'label': '1'}
{'text': "Otters \n\nNot many people have seen an otter. These animals live near rivers and\nmake their homes from small pieces of wood. They usually come out of their\nhomes at night. Otters are very good in the water and can swim at more than \n10 kilometres an hour. They have thick brown hair and this keeps them warm in the water. An otter can close its ears and nose. This means otters can stay under water for several minutes. \nTwenty years ago, there were few otters in Great Britain. The water in the rivers was so dirty that many fish and insects died and the otters couldn't find anything to eat. But today there is lots of food for them because the rivers are clean again. \n\n", 'label': '1'}
{'text': 'The Cerne Giant \n\nSherborne and Dorchester are two towns in the south of England that are quite near each other. On the road between them, there are a lot of green hills and fields. On one of these hills is a picture of a very large man. The man in the picture is called the Cerne Giant because the village that is next to \nhim is called Cerne.\nNobody really knows when the Cerne Giant was made, but people think that it was a very long time ago. To get nearer the picture, you can walk from \nCerne. If you go on the first of May when the sun comes up, you will see all the people from the village dancing around the man on the hill. \n\n', 'label': '1'}
{'text': "17 Green Street Camden London\n\n29th August 2002\n\nDear John,\nThank you for helping me with my English. You are a very good teacher. I enjoyed my stay in Cambridge. \nNow I am staying at my brother's flat. He is studying to be a doctor. I will stay with him for two weeks and then go home to Greece.\nI like London very much. We travelled to Regents Park by bus yesterday. It was very sunny and we had a good time.\nTonight, I am going to see a film with my brother and some of his friends.\nI'll write again from Greece.\nBest wishes,\nKostas", 'label': '1'}
{'text': "Dear Lorna,\n\nHow are you? I'm happy because last month I got a new job in the city centre. I am working in a Tourist Information Office and it is very interesting. I start work every morning at half past seven, so I have to get up very early! I love this job because I meet people from a variety of different countries. I like telling them about our city. Here is a photo of me. I'm wearing my new uniform. Do you like it?\nLove,\nGloria\n", 'label': '1'}
{'text': "CANADA GEESE\n\nCanada Geese are large blue and white birds. When autumn arrives, they have to fly south where the weather is warmer. The winters are so cold in Canada that the birds die if they stay there.\nLast spring, Bill Lishman found sixteen young Canada Geese on his farm. They had lost their parents. Bill thought, 'These young birds won't know what to do in the autumn.'\nBill had a small plane and he decided to teach the birds to follow him. All through the summer, he went on short trips in his plane and the young geese flew after him.\nWhen the cold weather arrived in autumn, Bill flew to Virginia in the United States, 600 miles south of his home in Canada. The geese followed him all the way. Bill left the geese in Virginia and he returned home.\nThis spring, Bill was waiting for the birds to come back. They didn't arrive, so Bill flew to Virginia to get them. He looked for them for two weeks but he couldn't find them.\nWhen he arrived back home, Bill found the geese waiting for him. They had found their way home without him!", 'label': '1'}
{'text': "ESTHER'S STORY\n\nWhen Esther left school at the age of sixteen, her aunt Flory gave her PS500 for her birthday. Most of Esther's friends decided to go to college, but Esther used her aunt's money to start her own business. She bought fruit, sugar and some glass jars and began making her own jam. She sold the jam for PS1 a jar to her friends and she soon doubled her aunt's PS500.\nAt first, her parents didn't want Esther to spend her time making jam and they thought that she should study instead. They hoped that one day she would be a teacher or a doctor. But Esther didn't listen to them. She just kept on making jam. After a few months, she started selling it to the local market. Then she started making orange juice. She sold this to a school where one of her friends worked.\nAfter two years, her business was very large and her parents were very pleased with her. She made all kinds of food which she sold to shops and supermarkets. She was so busy that she had to get some people to work for her. ", 'label': '1'}
{'text': "HOW DO THE IRISH POP-GROUP 'BOYZONE' LIVE A HEALTHY LIFE?\n\nSleeping well is very important. When I can get home to my mother's house, I sleep for ten hours. But I find it very difficult to sleep at night after a concert because my head is full of music.\nSport is important. Before I had a car accident I was at the sports centre two and a half hours a day, five days a week. I can't do that now so I do about 150 sit-ups a day.\nI don't drink alcohol or smoke. I try to eat well. Also I drink a lot of water because it's good for your health. I should have about eight glasses a day but I don't always drink so much.\nPeople shouldn't work all the time. I love my job but there are other things I like doing too. In my free time I just listen to music or watch TV. It's good for you to do nothing sometimes.\nI don't get tired any more since the doctor told me to eat better. Now I eat lots of things like carrots and spinach every day. But I still eat burgers sometimes!", 'label': '1'}
{'text': "The Elephant Show \n\nby Daniel Allsop, age 14 \n\nLast summer, I went to Thailand for a beach holiday with my family. One day, we took a trip to a park not far from our hotel. It had beautiful flower gardens but we were only interested in the elephant show. \nWe went straight to a large square with seats on three sides. Three elephants came in with their keepers and stood in front of a large piece of white card. Each elephant was given a paintbrush and started to paint on its own card. From time to time, the keepers put a new brush full of paint into each elephant's trunk and took the old one away. Slowly, following their keepers' instructions, the elephants drew pictures on the cards. I couldn't believe what I was seeing! One picture showed a river, one a tree and the third a bunch of flowers. When the keepers held up the paintings, everyone wanted to buy one. We gave the elephants the bananas we brought for our lunch. \nTwenty years ago, elephants worked in the forest. Now, they no longer work there, but the cleverest of these animals live in special centres where visitors can watch them. \n\n", 'label': '1'}
{'text': "REBECCCA STEVENS\n\nRebecca Stevens was the first woman to climb Mount Everest. Before she went up the highest mountain in the world, she was a journalist and lived in a small flat in south London.\nIn 1993, Rebecca left her job and her family and travelled to Asia with some other climbers. She found that life on Everest is hard. 'You must carry everything on your back,' she explained, 'so you can only take things that you will need. You can't wash on the mountain, and in the end I didn't even take a toothbrush. I am usually a clean person but there is no water, only snow. Water is very heavy so you only take enough to drink!'\nWhen Rebecca reached the top of Mount Everest on May 17 1993, it was the best moment of her life. Suddenly she became famous.\nNow she has written a book about the trip and people often ask her to talk about it. She has a new job too, on a science programme on television.\nRebecca is well known today and she has more money, but she still lives in the little flat in south London among her pictures and books about mountains!", 'label': '1'}
{'text': "Bill Bryson\n\nI was born in the United States but I have written several travel books about England. I lived there with my wife and four children for 20 years, but for the last three years we have lived in the United States. Our children are now learning about life in the United States. I'm sure they will be happier because they have lived in two countries. I like Britain and I want to return, but my daughter, Felicity, is going to start college here soon, so it won't be for another four years.\nI have just been to England for six weeks to work on a radio programme about the English language and also to talk about the book I've just written. Most writers don't like doing this; they don't like travelling around the country, selling their book. I don't mind it. I like visiting new places and meeting lots of people. It's very different from the life I have in the United States when I'm writing. In England, people drove me around in big cars and I stayed in expensive hotels. It was good because I didn't have to pay any bills. Everyone was kind to me and it was fun.", 'label': '1'}
{'text': "BURGLARS LOVE THE AFTERNOON\n\nMost house burglaries happen between 2 p.m. and 6 p.m.,say the police.\nInspector Ian Saunders told our newspaper that the number of house burglaries has gone up by more than 30% compared with last year. He also said that 67% of burglaries happen when people have gone out and forgotten to dose a door or a window.\nHe went on to report that night-time burglaries are unusual because families are usually at home at that time. But he said that winter afternoons are the best time for burglars because it is dark and they can't be seen easily. Also many houses are empty at that time, because people are often still at work.\nInspector Saunders said that it is a good idea to leave lights on in living rooms and bedrooms when you go on holiday. This will help to keep burglars away. He also asked neighbours to watch the other houses in the street when people are not at home. They should call the police if they see anything strange. 'We will also tell you how to make your house safe,' Inspector Saunders said. 'This kind of help costs nothing.'", 'label': '1'}
{'text': 'Schnauzer Dogs\n\nThere are three sizes of Schnauzer dog.\nThe two smaller sizes first came to England over 50 years ago, but the Giant Schnauzer has not been here very long. The name Giant is a good one because the dogs are 65 to 67.5 cm high.\nAll the dogs have long hair, which should be cut quite often. Most smaller Schnauzers are grey in colour, but the Giant Schnauzer is usually black.\nSchnauzers come from Germany, where farmers use the dogs to help them with their sheep, and they are also used by the police, because Schnauzer dogs are very intelligent.\nA Schnauzer makes a nice family dog. It is friendly and very good with young children.', 'label': '1'}
{'text': 'BEARS\n\nThe bear can be a dangerous animal. The adult bear is very strong and it can kill a person. Bears are good at climbing trees and they can run very fast. But they cannot see well and, like most animals, they find food by using their noses.\nThere are seven kinds of bear: The largest is the white polar bear, which is almost three metres tall. There are two kinds of black bear: One lives in the forests of North America, and the other lives in South-East Asia. But not all black bears are black. They may be dark brown or a reddish brown.\nEveryone loves the black and white panda bear, which comes from China. Not many pandas live in the forest today because it is difficult to find food.', 'label': '1'}
{'text': "Dear Deshini, \nIt's great that you are my new penfriend. My name is Tom and I am fifteen years old. I was born in Canada but I live in England now. Please write and tell me all about your life in India. I would love to go there one day. \nDo you live in a small village or in a big town? What is your school like? Have you got any pictures of your school you could send me? I'm sending you a few photos of my family. I'll send more the next time I write. \nI hope you'll write to me soon. \nTom \n", 'label': '1'}
{'text': "New books this month\n\nThe Long Night\nThis is David Reilly's first book. David became a writer after teaching English for several years.\nMaha is a nurse in northern Australia, where she works in a small hospital. One day a baby is so ill that Maha has to drive all night to get her to the nearest big city. They have a lot of problems getting there and ...\n\nHard Work\nThis exciting story is Joanna Jones's twentieth.\nHard Work is about Sombat, who works with his father, a carpenter, in Thailand. They work long, hard hours making tables and chairs, but they do not have any money. Then one day a man dressed all in black buys the most beautiful table in the shop ...\n\nHospital or Cinema?\nMarcie Jacome, who studies English in London, wrote this story earlier this year.\nTina is a young Brazilian woman whose dream is to become a doctor. She goes to London to study English and medicine but one day she meets a man who asks her to go to the USA with him to become a film star ... What will Tina do?", 'label': '1'}
{'text': 'Buildings \n\nPeople have always made buildings. We need houses to keep us warm and dry and we build stadiums so we can watch football matches and pop concerts. We use other buildings, like museums, to keep beautiful things in. \nMany people work together on a building. The architect decides how the building is going to look and draws pictures that show people his or her ideas. Engineers make sure the building will be strong and safe. Then, the workers carefully build it. \nThe Sydney Opera House is a famous modern building with a lovely roof. But the building is beautiful from every side, not only from the top. There is also a famous roof on the Olympic Stadium in Munich. This interesting building looks like a tent that is made of glass. \n', 'label': '1'}
{'text': 'The Rhino\n\nThere are five different types of rhino in the world today. The Black and White Rhino live in the open fields of Africa. The others live in forests in Asia.\nAll rhinos have big, heavy bodies. Their skin is very hard and they have very little hair. The great body of the rhino stands on four short legs. Each foot has three toes. They usually walk very slowly, but they can run at 50 kilometres an hour. Rhinos are usually quiet and calm animals, and they only eat grass and other plants.\nA baby rhino weighs 40 kilos when it is born. It has been inside its mother for about fifteen months. An adult rhino weighs over 200 kilos and may live to be 50 years old.', 'label': '1'}
{'text': "WORKING FOR AN AIRLINE\n\nNicola Peet left school at eighteen, went to college and then worked at a local airport. After nine months, she went to work for Saudi Arabian Airlines and then she joined British Airways as an air hostess. Four years later, she got her present job as a manager.\nThis is what she told us about her job:\n'My office is at Heathrow Airport, but I spend 60% of my time in the air. I teach air hostesses and help them with any problems. I also go to lots of meetings.\nMy hours are usually from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. but sometimes I work from 1 p.m. to 9 p.m. At work, the first thing I do is check plane times on my computer and then I speak with some of the air hostesses.\nSometimes I go on long flights to check how the air hostesses are doing. That's my favourite part of the job, but I like office work, too. Travelling can be hard work. When I get back from a long journey, all I can do is eat something and then go to bed! I don't earn much money, but I'm happy with British Airways and want to stay there and continue to travel.'", 'label': '1'}
{'text': "BICYCLES \n\nThe bicycle is a cheap and clean way to travel. The first bicycle was made about one hundred and fifty years ago. \nAt first bicycles were expensive. Only rich people could buy one. These early bicycles looked very different from the ones we have today. Later, when bicycles became cheaper, many people bought one. People started riding bicycles to work and in their free time. \nToday, people use cars more than bicycles; cars are much faster and you don't get wet when it rains! But some people still prefer to cycle to work. They say that there are too many cars in town centres and you can't find anywhere to park! \n\n", 'label': '1'}
{'text': 'The History of Farming \n\nBefore people started farming, they went to the forest to look for plants or fruit they could eat. This meant that people were moving all the time to find food. But about 12,000 years ago, in the Middle East, people began to grow food. These people were the first farmers. Farming made it possible for people to stay in one place and slowly their villages got bigger. \nSome people in the villages became free to do other work, like making clothes, because the farmers could grow food for everyone. Unfortunately, farming was difficult when the weather was bad and then some people did not get enough food to eat. \nToday, farmers can grow more food and it travels thousands of kilometres from where it is grown to our homes. \n', 'label': '1'}
{'text': "HOWARD BONNIER\n\nBray is a beautiful village about fifty kilometres west of London. A young Englishman named Howard Bonnier opened a restaurant called The Palace there about three and a half months ago. Not many people in Britain know Mr Bonnier's name yet, but he's already quite famous in France. This is because he has written in French magazines about almost all the best restaurants in that country. He's only 29 years old.\nWhen Howard was a teenager, he often went to restaurants with his mother and father. He liked doing this so much that he decided not to buy lots of clothes and CDs; instead, he used his money to visit France and eat in good restaurants. He also bought a lot of French and English cookbooks - he says he has more than two hundred and fifty!\nSo why did he decide to open a restaurant? Simply because he loves cooking. Has it been an easy thing to do? He says it's expensive to start your own restaurant and it's much more difficult to cook for fifty people than to cook for your family, but he's sure he's done the right thing.", 'label': '1'}
{'text': 'The Weather \n\nPeople are interested in the weather for a lot of reasons and it is important for people in many different jobs. For example, the weather makes a big difference for farmers. \nMany years ago, farmers spent a long time looking at the sky and at animals and flowers to try and learn more about the weather. Now there are lots of computer programmes which help us to learn about the weather, and people can even get weather information on their mobile phones. \nToday, a lot of people still believe in the old ideas about the weather. They say, for example, that if there is a red sky in the evening, it will be sunny the next day. Some people also think that when cows lie down in the fields, it will soon rain. ', 'label': '1'}
{'text': "14 Sheffield Road Rotherham\n\n20th May 2002\n\nDear Mary, \nI will be in London next Thursday morning. Would you like to have lunch with me? Write and tell me when you are free and where I can meet you. \nHope to see you then. \nYours \nJoan \n\n20 Didsbury Drive London NW1\n\n22 May 2002\n\nDear Joan,\nThanks for you letter. I got it this morning. Yes. I'd love to see you. How about meeting outside my office at one o'clock? There's a good Italian restaurant near there. Do you like Italian food?\nI have to be back at work by two o'clock, so please don't be late!\nYours\nMary\n\n", 'label': '1'}
{'text': 'CROCODILES \n\nWe can find crocodiles in tropical parts of the world, for example Africa, South America and Northern Australia. \nThey spend most of the time in slow-moving water but they can move fast through the water and on land. \nYou often see crocodiles together in large groups. They eat everything they catch, like fish, birds and small animals. And sometimes they make a meal of large animals or even people. \nThere are more than ten types of crocodile. They all have very sharp teeth. They often lose these teeth, but soon get new ones. \nCrocodiles are usually about 3.5 metres long, but some are much bigger. Crocodiles live for a long time. The oldest one kept in a zoo was 66 years old. \n', 'label': '1'}
{'text': "THE ROCKIES \n\nThe Rocky Mountains run almost the length of North America.\nThey start in the North-west, but lie only a few hundred miles from the \ncentre in more southern areas. Although the Rockies are smaller than the Alps, they are no less wonderful. \nThere are many roads across the Rockies, but the best way to see them is to travel by train. You start from Vancouver, the most attractive of Canada's big cities. Standing with its feet in the water and its head in the mountains, this city allows its residents to ski on slopes just 15 minutes by car from the city centre. \nThirty passenger trains a day used to set off from Vancouver on the cross- continent railway. Now there are just three a week, but the ride is still a great adventure. You sleep on board, which is fun, but travel through some of the best scenery at night. \n", 'label': '2'}
{'text': 'Grass\n\nGrass is probably the most successful living plant in the world. There are over 9,000 different types of grasses and they are found in every region on the earth. They are the single flowering plants that can exist in the freezing environment of the Arctic and the Antarctic. \nGrasslands support a wide range of animal life, from tiny insects and birds to huge animals like cows and lions. All of them depend on grass in one way or another. \nGrass recovers very quickly after it is cut or damaged. Unlike other plants, the new leaves grow from below the soil, not from the top of the plant. That is why large families of animals are able to live together in one area. As soon as they have eaten all the grass there, a fresh meal is always available because the plants start to grow again. \n\n', 'label': '2'}
{'text': "International Book Club\n\nHave you ever thought of joining a book dub and buying new books through the post? Here at the International Book Club, we already have many members buying books from us by mail.\nTo join:\nYou just need to send us your first order from our book list.\nImmediate benefits:\nAs a special offer, you may choose any reduced-price books from our new members' book list, to the value of PS6 in total (plus postage and packing). By doing this, you will save pound on the publishers' prices.\nTick the box on your form to order a free watch.\nIf you reply within seven days, we will send you another free gift carefully chosen from our book list by our staff.\nOrder a DVD from the many on offer in our list, at half the recommended retail price.\nWhen you've joined:\nAs a member, you'll enjoy savings of between 30% and 50% off the publisher's price on every book you buy, and what's more, they'll come straight to your door. Your free club magazine arrives once a month, to keep you up to date with the latest best-sellers. This means that every year we offer over 1,000 books to choose from. On the Internet, you can find all our titles for the year on our exclusive members' website.\nBeing a member:\nAll we are asking you to do while you are a member is to choose four books during your first year. After that, you can decide on the number of books you wish to take.\nIn each of our monthly club magazines, our experienced staff choose a Club Choice book - a work of fiction or a reference title which they feel is particularly worth buying, and which is offered at an extra-special price. However, if you do not want this book, just say so in the space provided on the form. We will always send the book if we do not receive this.\nSo, return your application form today, but hurry - it's not every day we can make you an offer like this. To apply to become a member, all you need to do is simply fill in the enclosed form and return it in the postage-paid envelope supplied.\nBefore you know it, your books will be with you. Please don't send any money now, as we will send you your bill with the books. And remember, you have up to a fortnight to decide if you wish to keep the books you have ordered. You should then either return the books or send your payment.", 'label': '2'}
{'text': "Moonshine \n\nThe band Moonshine released their third CD last week. 'Here again' is a followup to 'The Waves'. There have been a few changes since the last CD, with Tom Wilcott on bass guitar replacing Simon McVee who left the band last year, and the arrival of Tom Simpson on drums.\nIt is clear from the first song on the CD which is a dance tune that the band is no longer going to concentrate on slow songs. The second tune is also a dance tune and is even louder and heavier. Most later lacks are in the bands more usual slow style. These two tracks will certainly come as a surprise to many fans. Either of them could easily become a hit single though because they are excellent.\nSinger Rob Letchford gets a chance to really show how good he is reaching each note perfectly. Fans should be grateful he recorded the songs for the album before he had trouble with his throat. This has rented in the band having to cancel their next tour. (Anyone who has bought tickets need not worry as dl the concerts will be rearranged as soon as Rob has recovered.)\nOn this CD Moonshine show they can produce perfect music in a variety of styles from the slow ones we are familiar with to the ones that will keep your feet tapping. I did feel though that they put their best songs at the beginning and the last few tracks were not of quite the same quality. Despite thisHere again is certain to be a big hit and bring more success to this band.\n\n", 'label': '2'}
{'text': "Gareth Ellis\n\nGareth Ellis, 13, is the youngest son of Alan, an engineer, and Kath, a nursery teacher. His older brothers work in banking and computers, but Gareth's dream was always to become a clown. Three years ago, Alan, Kath and Gareth joined the circus. 'People laugh when we tell them,' says Kath. 'But it's true. Gareth has wanted to be a clown since we took him to the circus when he was three.'\nWhen Alan lost his job, he and Kath decided to see if they could find full-time circus jobs. They both got jobs with a famous circus and Gareth began training to become a clown. He calls himself Bippo. They travel with the circus during the summer and return home for the winter. Gareth's brothers are old enough to look after the house while they are away.\n'I can't say it was easy,' says Kath. 'There was a lot to think about and organise. We only had a car and a very small caravan to sleep in, and we were leaving behind our lovely house. The only thing Gareth missed was his long, hot baths.'\n'People ask about my education,' says Gareth, 'but from the beginning, wherever we go, someone has always come to teach me. I follow the same books as everyone back at school and I've got a computer. I've never fallen behind my classmates.'\nAnd the future? 'It was a difficult decision,' says Kath, 'but there was no other way to teach Gareth about being a clown. I'm happy to say it's working, and we're enjoying it.' And Gareth? 'I'm going to be the main clown in a circus one day', he says, 'perhaps Bippo's circus.'", 'label': '2'}
{'text': "LITTLE CAT, LITTLE CAT, WHERE HAVE YOU BEEN? \n\nWhen Bo the cat decided to explore a furniture van, she had a bigger adventure than she expected. She was discovered by the driver, after he had completed a trip of over 500 kilometres. It was the end of a long day. The driver and the cat were both hungry!He gave her some milk and started making enquiries. He telephoned his last customers, but they had not lost a cat. It was getting late, so he took Bo home for the night and next morning delivered her to an animal hospital. \nThe cat's owner had done some detective work too. After searching everywhere for the cat, he suddenly remembered the furniture van which had made a delivery to a neighbour. Fortunately, he remembered the name of the company. He called their office and in a short time Bo was returned safely. \n\n", 'label': '2'}
{'text': "Membership\n\nThe Short Story Society exists to help writers in Britain today. Started in 1899, the Short Story Society is now one of Britain's most active arts organisations.\nSociety Magazines\nWe produce a range of excellent magazines, including the popular Short Story Review. This magazine includes short stories by some of Britain's top writers, as well as providing plenty of opportunities for new writers to have their work printed. Another magazine, Short Story News, has interviews with writers and is packed with information about events, competitions, festivals and the writing scene in general. To see a selection of articles from recent issues, follow the links on this website.\nNational Short Story Competition\nWe run the National Short Story Competition, the biggest competition of its kind. It is open to anyone aged 18 and over and short stories on any topic are accepted. Short stories should be between 1,000 and 1,500 words long. There is no entry fee for anyone belonging to the Society (non-members pay an entry fee of PS5). The competition runs from April until the end of October each year. The ten best entries will appear in the Society's annual book of short stories. The actual winner will receive a publishing contract to produce his or her own collection of short stories.\nEducation\nFor nearly thirty years the Society has taken writers into classrooms, providing children and teachers with new ideas and building confidence in their own writing. Current projects include the Young Writer of the Year, which was started in 1998 and is open to writers aged 11-18. All winners receive book prizes and are invited to study on a five-day course taught by professional writers.\nThe Writers' Cafe\nThe Writers' Cafe is the social centre of the Society. Relaxed and stylish, with freshly cooked vegetarian food, excellent coffees and cold drinks, it is the ideal place to look through the Society's magazines. The Cafe also provides monthly exhibitions, short courses and readings. Its location is in the heart of London, and it is open from 11.00 am to 10.00 pm Monday to Friday and 11.00 am to 8.00 pm on Saturday. Society members receive discounts on selected products and events.\nBecoming a Member\nWe have members worldwide, and anyone aged eighteen or over is welcome to join. If you are interested in joining The Short Story Society, click here and fill out a registration form.", 'label': '2'}
{'text': "Watering the Desert\n\nIt can rain at any time between November and March in Marrakesh, Morocco. It doesn't happen frequently and when it does, the city's water pipes can't manage the sudden floods, which turn the streets into rivers. But, as many winters have remained dry in recent times, when the rain does come, it is welcomed by the local people. \nMarrakesh's parks and gardens exist, not because of the rain, but thanks to a network of underground channels, dug in the 11th century, which bring in water from the mountains all year round. Basically dry places, which receive their water in this way, are known as oases. \nFurther south from Marrakesh, the traveller arrives at Skoura. Here every available piece of land is made into small squares by the water channels and used to grow food. The Atlas mountains, snow-covered in winter, provide a delightful background. \n\n", 'label': '2'}
{'text': "Gallery News\n\nEaster quiz for children\nDuring the Easter holidays young visitors can take part in a quiz on the subject ofSurprises.The free quiz sheets can be picked up from the desk at the Orange Street entrance. Children will be directed to 14 surprising paintings and asked a variety of questions about them.\nThe quiz sheets will be available during normal gallery hours from 25 March until 9 April.\nNew picture\nThe Gallery now has a fine still life by the Dutch 18th century painter Jan van Os. This large picture (89.1 cm x 71 cm) of flowers and fruit is painted in light, bright colours on wood. It is one of the first pictures of this type in the Gallery. The picture is signed and dated 1777 and 1778. It is not unusual for a picture like this to be dated in two years: the artist waited for particular flowers to bloom in their different seasons in order to paint them. This picture was generously given to the Gallery by Miss Violet Churchman in memory of her sister Ida Nancy. It is now on display in Room 25.\nSpecial exhibition\nThe exhibition 'Painting in Spain during the late 18th century' opened in the Sunley Room on 15 March. Recently the Gallery has bought works by three Spanish painters of this period. Paret, Melendez and Francisco Bayeu, who are the focus of the exhibition. These three artists are joined by Francisco's brother Ramon, by Antonio Gonzalez, and by two Italians who worked in Spain during these years - Corrado Giaquinto and Giovanni Battista Tiepolo. The exhibition runs until 31 May.\nLecture news\nThe series of lectures arranged to go with the special exhibition continues every Wednesday. On 5 April, LizzieBarker will discuss the work of Melendez, while on 12 April, Sarah Symmons will lecture on Luis Paret. On 19 and 26 April, Juliet Wilson will talk about Francisco Bayeu.\nOn Tuesdays in April, Erika Langmuir will explain how artists often 'tell a story' through their pictures.\nGallery restaurant improvements\nThe Gallery is delighted to announce that an improved and expanded service is now available in the Gallery restaurant. With its new kitchens the restaurant offers a wide choice of hot and cold dishes at reasonable prices.\nInformation for visitors\nFree guided tours of the Gallery take place every day at 11.00 am and 3.00 pm (except Sundays). These tours introduce some of the Gallery's greatest pictures, and show the whole range of the Gallery's collection of some of the most important European paintings from the 13th to the early 20th centuries.", 'label': '2'}
{'text': "THE FIRST WOMAN SCIENTIST \n\nHypatia was born in Alexandria, in Egypt, in 370 A.D. For many centuries she was the only woman scientist to have a place in the history books. \nHypatia's father was director of Alexandria University, and he made sure his daughter had the best education available. This was unusual, as most women then had few opportunities to study. \nAfter studying in Athens and Rome, Hypatia returned to Alexandria where she began teaching mathematics. She soon became famous for her knowledge of new ideas. \nWe have no copies of her books, but we know that she wrote several important mathematical works. Hypatia was also interested in technology and invented several scientific tools to help with her work. \nAt the time many rulers were afraid of science, and anyone connected with it was in danger. One day in March 415, Hypatia was attacked in the street and killed. \n", 'label': '2'}
{'text': "Being an older student\n\nAt 32, I have just finished my first year at university. As well as attending lectures regularly, I have had to learn to read books quickly and write long essays.\nI decided to go to university after fourteen years away from the classroom. As a secretary, although I was earning a reasonable amount of money, I was bored doing something where I hardly had to think. I became more and more depressed by the idea that I was stuck in the job. I was jealous of the students at the local university, who looked happy, carefree and full of hope, and part of something that I wanted to explore further.\nHowever, now that I've actually become a student I find it hard to mix with younger colleagues. They are always mistaking me for a lecturer and asking me questions I can't answer. I also feel separated from the lecturers because, although we are the same age, I know so much less than them. But I am glad of this opportunity to study because I know you need a qualification to get a rewarding job, which is really important to me. Unlike most eighteen-year-olds, I much prefer a weekend with my books to one out partying. Then there are the normal student benefits of long holidays and theatre and cinema discounts. I often have doubts about what I'll do after university, but I hope that continuing my education at this late date has been a wise choice.", 'label': '2'}
{'text': "Climbing to the top of Britain\n\nEach year thousands of people climb Ben Nevis in Scotland, and because of its northerly location, the climate can be bitterly cold. Climber Keith Hewitt describes his first time on Ben Nevis.\n\nIt was February, my first big winter climb. Our route was up the north face of the mountain to Tower Ridge. It's six hundred metres up - probably the longest climb in Britain. We planned to camp for three days in the 'Carries', which are like big bowls cut into the walls of the mountain half-way up.\nWe were carrying tents, sleeping bags, and metal spikes for our boots -you'd have trouble on Ben Nevis without them because you get snow so hard it's like walking on ice. Even though some of the group were very experienced, we packed all kinds of safety equipment, including lights for attracting attention, hard hats and extra clothing. Although the weather forecast was perfect, with no strong winds, there was still a general feeling of nervousness when we set out. Ben Nevis in winter is always a challenge.\nThe track soon climbed and my legs felt heavy. Being the weakest member of the group, I had to rest more frequently. The others sometimes stopped for a break to let me catch up, but as soon as I reached them they set off again. I promised myself that in future I would always train properly before a climb.\nAfter 200 metre<;,we reached the beginning of Tower Ridge, the route that would take us to the top of Ben Nevis. It's only a metre and a half wide and the mountain drops away hundreds of metres on each side. We knew we had to keep calm and concentrate on every step as we moved slowly along it.\nAfter seven hours of climbing, we reached the top. On a clear day, you can see the sea and right across it to the island of Skye, 48 kilometres away. However, we weren't so lucky, as a mist had come down.\nOn Ben Nevis, getting back down to camp can be as much of a challenge as going up. You need to be able to read a map properly a wrong turn could lead to slopes too dangerous to go down in winter. I was glad we had decided to take it in turns to do that job. That first time, it was only when I was safe in the tent that I could say I really enjoyed the experience. But at least I made it to the top.", 'label': '2'}
{'text': 'The Outdoor Centre\n\nFees are for car with four people. Each extra person is 50p. Fees to be paid at main office.\nThe centre is not a private club; it is an organisation whose aim is to provide outdoor sport and recreation facilities for all members of the public.\nGroup visitors are requested to inform the centre in advance of their intended visit.\nWindsurfing - One-day course\nBeginner windsurfing courses are offered on Saturdays and Sundays when the weather is good enough. Learning to windsurf is a lot of fun. The excitement when you sail across the water for the first time is not easily forgotten. Boards with small sails are available for beginners.\nCoursefee: PS32.50 (this includes all equipment)\nOne-day adventure course\nThis is an opportunity you have been waiting for. Come and try sailing, climbing, surfing and archery. This course is intended to introduce outdoor activities to adults in a fun, leisurely manner. You do not need to be extremely fit or to have had previous experience of the activities. All you need is to be interested.\nCoursefee: PS22.50\nPlay Park\nThe Play Park is suitable for children from two to ten years of age. It is one of the best of its type in the country. It has sand and water play, slides, large ball pool, play castle and much, much more. Next year the centre will open a new Play Palace and Play Ship.\nGroup day and residential courses\nWe also offer day and long weekend courses for groups. We receive regular visits from schools, colleges and youth groups. There are three large rooms with twelve beds in each, which can be booked in advance for groups of up to 36 people (minimum 12).\nSummer adventure holidays (for 8-14 years of age)\nSailing Climbing Windsurfing Fun Games\nSafety is of primary importance at the Outdoor Centre. All staff are fully trained in First Aid, and qualified to teach the activities on offer. We also make certain that all children only take part in activities that are suitable for their age and physical abilities. For this programme children must be able to swim 25 metres and be in good physical health.', 'label': '2'}
{'text': "Write a winning story!\n\nYou could win PS1,000 in this year's Fiction Prize and have your story printed in Keep Writing magazine. Ten other lucky people will win a cheque forPS100.\nOnce again, we need people who can write good stories. The judges, who include Mary Littlejohn, the novelist, Michael Brown, the television reporter, and Susan Hitchins, Keep Writing's editor, are looking for interesting and original stories. Detective fiction was extremely popular last year, although the competition winner produced a love story. You can write about whatever you want but here's some advice to start you thinking:\nWrite about what you know\nThis is the advice which every writer should pay attention to and, last year, nearly everyone who wrote for us did exactly that. Love, family, problems with friends - these were the main subjects of the stories. However, you need to turn ordinary situations into something interesting that people will want to read about. Make the reader want to continue reading by writing about ordinary things in a new and surprising way.\nGet your facts right\nIt's no good giving a description of a town or explaining how a jet engine works if you get it wrong. So avoid writing anything unless you're certain about it.\nHold the reader's attention\nMake the beginning interesting and the ending a surprise. There is nothing worse than a poor ending. Develop the story carefully and try to think of something unusual happening at the end.\nThink about the characters\nTry to bring the people in your story alive for the reader by using well-chosen words to make them seem real.\nYour story must be your own work, between 2,000 and 2,500 words and typed, double-spaced, on one side only of each sheet of paper.\nEven if you're in danger of missing the closing date, we are unable to accept stories by fax or email. You must include the application form with your story. Unfortunately your story cannot be returned, nor can we discuss our decisions.\nYou should not have had any fiction printed in any magazine or book in this country - a change in the rules by popular request- and the story must not have appeared in print or in recorded form, for example on radio or TV, anywhere in the world.\nYour fee of PS5 will go to the Writers' Association. Make your cheque payable to Keep Writing and send it with the application form and your story to:\nThe closing date is 30 July and we will inform the winner within one month of this date. Please note that if you win, you must agree to have your story printed in our magazine.", 'label': '2'}
{'text': "NEW OPPORTUNITIES WITH AN OPEN UNIVERSITY DEGREE \n\nLike any other university, the Open University can give you a degree. \nHowever, you don't have to stop working to study. It can also open up a whole variety of interests. \nIf you have never studied before, you will enjoy the special, new pleasure of increasing your knowledge. You will make friends of all kinds. You may also find that your qualification provides new career opportunities. \nYou don't actually go to the Open University for lectures, but study at home, using television, radio and computer software. You can attend one class a month if you wish at an Open University centre. Of course, there are exams to take, as in any university. \nIf you would like to know more, all you have to do is complete the form below. It could be the start of a wonderful new period in your life. \n\n", 'label': '2'}
{'text': 'HONEY \n\nHoney is a sweet liquid made by bees. It consists of water and sugars. Bees may travel as far as seventy-five thousand kilometres and visit over two million flowers to produce just half a kilo of honey. The colour and flavour of honey depend on the type of flower visited. In fact, there are more than three hundred varieties of honey. \nThe lighter-coloured ones are generally milder in flavour than darker honey. \nIn ancient times, honey was the main sweet food, as sugar was very\nrare. Honey was of great value to the ancient Egyptians, who used it as payment. \nToday, honey is produced and eaten in every part of the world. Research suggests that it prevents tiredness and improves athletic performance. However, honey is not just food - it can be taken for sore throats and is used in many skin and hair-care 26 A involves products. \n\n', 'label': '2'}
{'text': 'SAMUEL PEPYS \n\nThe most famous diary in English was written by Samuel Pepys. It gives a detailed and interesting description of everyday life in England between 1660 and 1669. Pepys writes about important news stories of the time, like disease, an enemy navy sailing up the River Thames and the Great Fire of London. \nHe also writes about himself, even about his faults - he often slept during church or looked at the pretty girls. He describes his home life - a quarrel with his wife and how they became friends again, his worry about her illness. As well as books, he liked music, the theatre, card games, and parties with good food and plenty of fun. Pepys was a busy man who had many important jobs \n- he was a Member of Parliament and President of the Royal Society. He is also remembered for his work for the British Navy. \n', 'label': '2'}
{'text': "Antarctica Sightseeing Flights Website\n\nWelcome to the website. Here is all you need to know before booking a flight.\nDuring the brief Antarctic summer, Antarctica Sightseeing Flights takes tourists in a full- size passenger plane (Boeing 747) from Sydney, Australia, over the continent of Antarctica and back.\nFlight dates for next year are not definite yet, but if you make a booking now, your deposit is transferable if we need to change the day.\nQuestions\nThese are answers to the most frequently asked questions about Antarctica Sightseeing Flights.\nHow long is the flight?\nThe average flight is 12 hours. About four hours into the flight, we usually see the first sea ice and icebergs. We spend four hours over Antarctica and the remaining time travelling home. On the way to and from the continent, Antarctica experts who have lived on scientific research stations there give talks on the environment and history, and answer questions. A camera next to the pilot, which is linked to the video system on board, gives you a pilot's eye view throughout, from take-off to landing.\nWill I get a seat next to a window?\nAll passengers are given two boarding passes. At the halfway point of the flight, passengers are asked to move to the seat shown on their second boarding pass. Business and first class passengers will have a window seat for half of the flight and a next-to-window seat for the other half. Economy passengers will have a window seat or the seat next to a window seat for half of the flight and an end of row seat for the other half of the flight. While over Antarctica, we encourage passengers to get up from their seats and move about the plane, allowing everyone to share the sightseeing opportunities. The pilot flies in long 'figure 8s' over various points of interest to allow these amazing sights to be seen equally well from both sides of the plane.\nWhat happens if the weather is bad?\nWe have 17 different approved flight plans. Our captain looks at the satellite cloud picture on the morning of the flight and selects the direction which promises the clearest views.\nWill I see penguins and other wildlife?\nAs most Antarctic wildlife lives at sea level, over 3,000 metres below the plane, we can't see them in any detail. We do not land on Antarctica, primarily for environmental reasons. To experience Antarctic wildlife, you would need to join a boat tour.\nCan I take photographs?\nDefinitely! All cameras are welcome. We even provide a few fun onboard photo opportunities where you can experience what it is like to wear Antarctic cold weather clothes.", 'label': '2'}
{'text': "The Ghan Train \n\nMark Ottaway travelled by train from Darwin, in the north of Australia, to Adelaide, in the south. \n\nThe Ghan train crosses the Australian continent, from the warm northern coast through seemingly endless desert to the colder Southern Ocean. It is often called the 'famous Ghan', which is perhaps unfortunate since it is known, above all, for being late. \nThe dream of a rail link between Darwin and Adelaide was partly achieved in the 1920s with a line from Adelaide as far as Alice Springs, but there was often serious flooding on the line making it difficult for trains to pass. A new line was completed a few months before my journey. \nThe railway was built for speeds of up to 115 kph and the Ghan is certainly not a high- speed, inter-city train - there are few stops and almost all passengers are holidaymakers. Nor does the Ghan aim to provide luxury in the same way that a train like the Orient Express does, although the on-board food is excellent. \nThe railway was originally built to carry goods, not passengers. It was thought that sending goods from Europe to Australia's densely populated south via Darwin and the train, rather than around the continent by ship, would save time and money. \nIt is not every day a transcontinental railway is completed, and the Ghan claims to be the world's first north-south one. As I waited to board the Ghan, I could see that everyone was really looking forward to the journey. The Australian pensioners, who made up the majority of my fellow travellers, were particularly keen to board. \nOur first stop, where the Ghan waited four hours, was at Katherine. Some passengers got off here and took a boat trip up the gorge. I didn't leave the train until Alice Springs, where I went on a two-day trip to Uluru (Ayers Rock) with a small group of passengers and a guide. Climbing the rock is not encouraged nowadays and few people do. Our group just walked around the rock and stayed to watch the beautiful sunset. \nFrom Alice Springs there are two trains a week heading south, so many passengers break their journey here. The view from the train after Alice Springs isn't particularly interesting. There is a lot of flat land, with nothing to look at but cattle. But at dawn on the third day we reached the foothills of an area close to the Southern Ocean. My journey was over and, although the train might not have delivered on everything the advertisements promise, it had taken me to several of the most amazing sights that Australia has to offer. \n\n \n", 'label': '2'}
{'text': "AUSTRALIA\n\nfor only PS1985\nOUR PRICE INCLUDES\nScheduled flights by Australia's national airline, Quantas, from London or Manchester to Perth, returning from Melbourne.\nAfter arriving in Perth, Air Australia flights between Perth/Alice Springs/Cairns/Sydney.\nCoach from Sydney to Melbourne via Canberra and Albury.\nAll airport transfers in Australia.\nNineteen nights' accommodation in grade hotels with full continental breakfast.\nDay trip to Ayers Rock, with a full day Barrier Reef boat trip, a visit to an Australian sheep station and city sightseeing tours in Perth, Alice Springs, Sydney, Canberra and Melbourne.\nAll state and local taxes.\nHotel baggage handling.\nExperienced Globewise Tour Manager at all stages of the trip.\n\nPERTH\nWonderful long, golden beaches, superb restaurants serving fabulous food in delightful surroundings, lush green parks and the beautiful Swan River. City sightseeing tour included.\nALICE SPRINGS\nFly over the outback to famous Alice Springs in the heart of Aboriginal country. Full sightseeing tour. See Flying Doctor base and 'School of the Air'.\nAYERS ROCK\nDrive to Yulara National Park. Visit the mysterious Olgas and Ayers Rock with its caves and Aboriginal rock paintings. Fly on to the lively seaside town of Cairns and relax in the sun.\nGREAT BARRIER REEF\nWe've included a full day's boat trip on the famous reef with the chance to see amazing, brightly coloured fish and other sea creatures.\nSYDNEY\nYou'll love the excitement and beauty of Australia's biggest city - we've included a sightseeing tour and a visit to the famous Opera House. You can also book a day trip to the Blue Mountains.\nMELBOURNE\nWe've included a city sightseeing tour - or you can visit the Penguin Parade.\nWe promise that by the end of the trip you'll be wanting to return!\n", 'label': '2'}
{'text': "JAZZ \n\nBy Katie Atkins, aged 14 \n\nI play the trumpet in my school jazz band. Last month we held a jazz competition with bands from local high schools - and our band won! \nEach band had their own costumes, ranging from black school uniforms like my band wore, to brightly-coloured T-shirts. We didn't look much like adult professional bands, but all of us were used to performing in competitions, so the quality of playing was amazing, especially considering everyone was so young. Players from each band even created new tunes right there on stage. It was exciting to watch - but even better when my band played on stage! \nWe have a great jazz band at my school, but not everyone who wants to play in it gets accepted - only about half, in fact. But anyone who's keen to play goes to jazz practice before school, and we often spend time together after school, listening to jazz and learning its language. There are also trips to jazz summer camps across the country - I've been to a couple and learnt a lot. \nAdults are often surprised that young people are getting interested in jazz. My music teacher thinks it's because pop music isn't challenging enough for people like me who are serious about music. But I find it exciting because it's both new and old at the same time - you can create your own music, but you also feel you're part of its history, as you're playing on stage in the same way as great jazz performers before you. \nMy school's really lucky because we have great teachers, and parents who've supported us all the way. Without them, we'd never get anywhere with our music! \n \n", 'label': '2'}
{'text': "Craigie Aitchison\n\nThe painter Craigie Aitchison was born in Scotland. He came to London intending to study law, but went to art school instead. There he found the traditional drawing classes difficult, but still kept on painting.\nIn his late twenties he was given money by the Italian government to study art, and became interested in early Italian artists, which shows in some of his work. He loved the greens and browns of the Italian fields and the clear light there, and wanted to put this light into his paintings.\nThis led him to paint colours thinly one on top of another from light to dark, but he insists he's never sure what the results will be. He says, 'It's a secret - because I don't know myself. I don't start by painting yellow, knowing I'm going to put anything on top.' Like most talented people, Aitchison makes it sound easy. 'Anyone can do the colours - you can buy them. I simply notice what you put the colours next to.'\nUnlike some artists, he never does drawings before he starts a painting, as he feels that if he did, he might get bored and not do the painting afterwards.\nInstead, Aitchison changes his paintings many times before they are finished. This explains why his favourite models are people who don't ask to see their pictures while he's painting them. 'If I feel they're worried and want to look at the painting, I can't do it.'\nSince moving to London years ago, he has not felt part of the Scottish painting scene. He says he is not interested in following any tradition, but just paints the way he can. However, his work still influences young British painters.\n", 'label': '2'}
{'text': "The Young Achiever of the Year\n\nKal Kaur Rai has always been interested in fashion and has just won the title of Young Achiever of the Year at the Asian Business Awards. Ever since she was a child, she has drawn clothes and designed patterns. She never told her hard-working parents, who own a supermarket, that she wanted to turn her hobby into a career. She thought they expected her to go into a more established business, so she went to university to do a management degree.\n\nAfter university, she moved to London and worked in an advertising agency. She had to attend industry events but couldn't afford the designer clothes she liked. She started making skirts and tops for herself. When her friends saw her clothes, they asked her to make things for them. She then found a small shop in London willing to take her designs on a sale-or- return basis. They were very popular and nothing came back. This encouraged her to leave her advertising job, take out a PS20,000 loan and begin her own womenswear label.\n\nKal's parents were not angry about her career change and said they would support her, which really pleased her. Her clothes are now on sale in over 70 stores and her business has an income of over PS500,000. Her clothes appear in fashion magazines, she designs for pop stars and she has just gained public recognition by winning this award. Her business has come a long way and she knows she is extremely lucky. 'What I do is my hobby - and I get paid for it! But remember, I've worked hard for this.'", 'label': '2'}
{'text': "The Eden Project \n\nSince it opened, the Eden Project in the south-west of England has become one of the UK's most popular tourist attractions. At first sight, the huge 'biospheres' on this former industrial site look like a scene from a science-fiction movie. \n\nEach biosphere contains a different climate zone, showing visitors just how important the relationship between people and plants is. It is amazing to see just how many products that we use every day come from plants: wood, rubber, fruit, rice, sugar, coffee and chocolate, for example. Over 135,000 different types of plant are grown here. However cold the weather is outside, computer-controlled electric heaters keep the plants at the right temperature. \nIn the Rainforest Zone, the atmosphere is always damp because of a huge waterfall. Another zone reproduces the environment of the Mediterranean, California and South Africa, and there are plans to build a desert zone in the near future. \n", 'label': '2'}
{'text': "THE HISTORY OF THE IDITAROD - THE LAST GREAT RACE ON EARTH\n\nIn the 1880s, gold was discovered in what is now the most northern state of the USA,\nAlaska. Many people came to the area hoping to get rich. New towns were built and grew quickly. One such town was called Iditarod, which means 'far, distant place'. This town grew so quickly during 1909 that it briefly became the largest city in Alaska. In the summer months, essential supplies could be delivered to these towns by boat, but in the winter the rivers and the ocean froze and there was no way to get to them. So, in 1910, a winter track was built which would be used by teams of dogs pulling sleds. They would take mail, food and clothes to the gold miners.\nThe track became known as the Iditarod Trail. It took a team of dogs about three weeks to travel across Alaska. They stopped at 'roadhouses' where the drivers could get a warm bed for the night and something to eat for both themselves and their dogs. The trail was used every winter until the 1920s when aeroplanes replaced steam boats and dog teams as the main form of transport.\nHowever, the dogs had one last taste of fame in 1925, when a disease called diphtheria hit the city of Nome. The disease could be cured, but, unfortunately, the closest medicine that could be found was in Anchorage, right on the other side of Alaska. Aeroplanes were still quite new, so no-one knew if they could fly in such cold weather. Also, Carl Eielson, the only pilot considered skilled enough to manage the flight, was away on a trip at the time. It was therefore agreed that the medicine would be transported using teams of dogs instead.\nThe trip covered over 1,000 kilometres, most of it along the Iditarod Trail. It took twenty teams just six days to complete the journey. Leonhard Seppala, a Norwegian who had come to Alaska looking for gold, travelled the first 400 of those kilometres. He had to trust his dog Togo's ability to find his way in the blinding snow and Togo turned out to be a reliable guide. The last part of the journey was done by Gunnar Kaasen who had driven dog teams in Alaska for 21 years. His lead dog was Saito. At one point Balto refused to go any further, and saved the team from falling into icy water. The diphtheria was stopped and Balto became a hero.\nNowadays a dog sled race is held every year from Anchorage to Nome, following the route of that famous journey in 1925. It is called the Iditarod and has become known as 'The Last Great Race on Earth'.", 'label': '2'}
{'text': "THE ICEHOTEL \n\nFor many years the Arctic was a popular destination in the summer season to see the land of the midnight sun but in winter the few inhabitants had the snow and ice to themselves. By the end of the 1980s it was decided that the dark and cold winter should be seen as an advantage. In the winter of 1990 the French artist Jannot Derit was invited to have the opening of an exhibition in a specially built igloo (a building made of snow) in the little town of Jukkasjarvi on the frozen Torne River. The building, named Arctic Hall, attracted many interested visitors to the area. One night a group of foreign guests decided it would be a good idea to sleep in the Arctic Hall. The following morning the brave group were very pleased with their experience and the idea of an ice hotel was born. Today it is world famous. \nAs soon as winter begins, a team of snow builders, architects and artists from all over the world come to Jukkasjarvi and they make the hotel for that year. As one part is completed, it opens to visitors and overnight guests, while the other parts are still being built. The first part is completed in December and each week after that a new part opens, until January 7th when the hotel is completed. As the ICEHOTEL is built under the open sky, using the natural materials of the winter season, the finishing date depends on nature and therefore there are sometimes changes to the plan. In the spring, as the weather gets warmer, the hotel melts. \nInside the hotel, the temperature is never colder than -5 degC to -8 degC, however cold it may be outside. Winter outer clothes such as warm overalls, hats and gloves are included in the cost of guests' stay at the hotel. In addition to this, it is a good idea for guests to bring sweaters and a scarf as well as plenty of woollen socks and to choose footwear that is larger than normal to allow space for thick socks. \nIf you are planning to come to the hotel, you can buy warm sweaters, woollen socks and much more on the ICEHOTEL website. You can order these and the equipment you will need at the same time as you book your visit. The items will be delivered to your room when you check in. \nThe hotel is in the village of Jukkasjarvi, 200 km above the Arctic Circle but only 15 km from Kiruna airport and 17 km from Kiruna train station. Transport by bus can be arranged from the airport or train station to the ICEHOTEL. \n \n", 'label': '2'}
{'text': "Maria Mutola\n\nIn 1988, Maria Mutola was playing football as the only girl in an all-boys team in a local competition in Mozambique. 'We won,' she said. 'At first no one thought it was a problem that I was a girl. But then the team we beat complained.'\nThe story appeared in a local newspaper and Jose Craveirinha, who had encouraged other African athletes, learnt about Maria. He went to meet her and found her kicking a ball around outside the football club. He realised immediately that she was fast. 'He talked to me about athletics. I had no idea what he meant. The only sport I knew about was football. Then he bought me running shoes and took me training. It was such hard work and my legs really ached.' But Jose visited her parents and persuaded them she could be successful and this would help end their poverty. They agreed to let him take her away to train.\nIn 1991, she finally accepted an invitation to train in the United States. She had refused previously because she knew she would miss her family. Her background was unlike those of the girls she met in the US. She explains, 'They were good athletes but, while I worried about my parents having enough to eat, they worried about dresses and make-up. They knew very little about me and even less about my problems. But I knew I was lucky to be there. The trainers were brilliant and I learnt a lot.'\nToday, Maria still runs and for most of the year she lives happily in South Africa with her mother.", 'label': '2'}
{'text': "Rock Band\n\nTwo years ago,our 14-year-old s on,Ben, asked us for a set of drums for his birthday. At first,we were very much against the idea because of the noise. 'It's better than watching television or playing computer games in my free time,' Ben argued ,'and it'll keep me out of trouble.' In the end we gave in. 'All right,' we said, 'but you must consider the rest of the family and the neighbours when you play.'\nThat was just the beginning. Because drums are not the easiest instrument to transport, the other members of Ben's band started appearing at our home with their guitars and other electrical equipment. And so, for several hours a week,the house shakes to the noise of their instruments and their teenage singing.\nAt least Ben's hobby has been good for our health: whenever the band start practising, my husband and I go out for a long walk. And I must admit that, although their music may sound a little strange, they are a friendly and polite group of young men. I cannot judge their musical skill - after all I didn't expect my parents' generation to like the same music as I did when I was a teenage - but they do play regularly in local clubs for young people.\nOur main worry is that they won't spend enough time on their school work because of their musical activities, though this hasn't happened yet. I am always stressing to Ben how important his studies are. But one thing is certain - Ben was right: it has kept him out of trouble and he is never bored.", 'label': '2'}
{'text': "Winter Driving\n\nWinter is dangerous because it's so difficult to know what is going to happen and accidents take place so easily. Fog can be waiting to meet you over the top of a hill. Ice might be hiding beneath the melting snow, waiting to send you off the road. The car coming towards you may suddenly slide across the road.\nRule Number One for driving on icy roads is to drive smoothly. Uneven movements can make a car suddenly very difficult to control. So every time you either turn the wheel, touch the brakes or increase your speed, you must be as gentle and slow as possible. Imagine you are driving with a full cup of hot coffee on the seat next to you. Drive so that you wouldn't spill it.\nRule Number Two is to pay attention to what might happen. The more ice there is, the further down the road you have to look. Test how long it takes to stop by gently braking. Remember that you may be driving more quickly than you think. In general, allow double your normal stopping distance when the road is wet, three times this distance on snow, and even more on ice. Try to stay in control of your car at all times and you will avoid trouble.", 'label': '2'}
{'text': 'The History of Shoes \n\nIn the past, importance was not given to shoes being comfortable or fashionable. These early foot coverings were probably animal skins, which people tied round their ankles during cold weather. We still use leather today, but other materials such as silk, plastic, or cotton are also popular, depending on what is in fashion. \nIt was only one hundred and fifty years ago that people began to wear a different shoe on each foot. Formerly, the two shoes had been straight instead of shaped and could be worn on the left or the right foot. All shoes used to be made by hand, but now, although there are shoemakers still using their traditional skills, most shoes are now machine-made in large factories. The introduction of sewing machines allowed the shoe industry to produce large quantities of cheaper shoes for a wider range of buyers. \n\n', 'label': '2'}
{'text': "Henry Ford \n\nHenry Ford was born on a farm in Michigan in 1863 but he did not like farming. When he was fifteen he began work as a mechanic and in 1893 he built his first car. After he had driven it 1,500 kilometres, he sold it and built two bigger cars. Then, in 1903, he started the Ford Motor Company. By using strong but light steel, he built cheap cars for ordinary people to buy. In 1908, he built the first Ford Model 'T', which sold for $825. He was soon selling 100 cars a day. By 1927, the Ford Motor Company was worth $700 million. Early Ford cars were simple and cheap, but keeping things simple sometimes meant less choice. 'You can have any colour you like,' said Henry Ford of the Model T,'as long as it's black.' \n\n", 'label': '2'}
{'text': "Tom Cruise \n\nTom Cruise is one of the most successful actors in cinema history. However, life hasn't always been that easy for him. As a young boy, Tom was shy and had difficulty in finding friends, although he really enjoyed taking part in school plays. \nAfter he had finished High School, Tom went to New York to look for work. He found employment as a porter, and at the same time he attended drama classes. In 1980, the film director Franco Zeffirelli offered Tom his first part in a film. Ten years later, he had become so successful that he was one of the highest-paid actors in Hollywood, earning millions of dollars for each film. \nToday, Tom still appears in films and is as popular as ever with his thousands of fans from all around the world. \n\n", 'label': '2'}
{'text': "Joining the Kirov Ballet \n\nI'm Nathalie. Last year I was one of the youngest foreign students ever to join the Kirov's ballet school in St Petersburg, Russia. At my first ballet class, I was nervous as I didn't know anyone. Everyone gathered round, asking me questions, all in Russian. I tried to say something in Russian and they began talking in English so we managed to communicate. Now, six months later, everyone is really nice to me, my Russian has improved enormously and I understand my teachers. \nFor the first two weeks after I arrived, my mum stayed with me and when she left, I was a bit sad. In fact, I called home late at night once to speak to her because I felt a little lonely. \nCompared with my ballet school in England, the classes in Russia are really hard, and I eat like an elephant to keep up my energy levels. That makes me confident I can perform to the school's high standards. In the evenings, I watch my favourite films on my computer, but sometimes I fall asleep before the DVD has finished. \nNow that I've settled down, I feel really at home here. I like walking around the city and going to the different shops - even during December when I couldn't believe how cold it was. I decided to buy a fur hat because it was minus 10oC, but the Russians said it was mild for the time of year! At least it was warm and cosy in my room. At the moment we are preparing for a new production and there's also a competition for young dancers which I'm going to enter. I feel so lucky to be here. \n\n", 'label': '2'}
{'text': "New TV Star\n\nCaroline Benson talks about her first TV role\n\n'I never expected to spend some of my first year at university filming The Finnegans. I'd only ever acted at school, but I'd loved the book since I was eleven. My grandmother used to say I was just like Polly Finnegan and I always imagined myself playing her.\nI'd taken a year off to go travelling before university. While I was in Chile, my mother emailed me to say there were plans to turn the book into a TV drama. I knew I had to go for the part. She was surprised at first, but sent my photograph to the director and persuaded him to meet me. I flew back and got the part.\nThe outdoor filming started a week into term, so I got permission from the university to be away for three weeks. Once I was back at university, I got up at 6.00am to write the essays I'd missed. I didn't tell my university friends, but they found out and thought it was great.\nIt was an amazing experience I'm so lucky. After university, I definitely want to make acting my career. I'm not from an acting family, though my grandfather was an opera singer. I've tried for other TV parts but haven't received any offers yet.\nI don't know how I managed it all, because I had a full social life too. When filming finished, I hardly knew what to do. I've since appeared in two college plays. Unfortunately, I haven't been home much and now my first year at university is over, I'm off to Greece for the summer with friends.'", 'label': '2'}
{'text': 'Sharks\n\nSharks are some of the most frightening creatures in our oceans. They are well prepared for feeding under water because they can see very well, and they can also feel movement through special lines on the sides of their bodies. These make sharks very dangerous for smaller sea creatures that become their food. \nAlthough sharks are similar to other fish in a number of ways, their bodies are different. For example, unlike other fish, most sharks ought to swim all the time in order to breathe and stay alive, so they hardly sleep at all. Also, if sharks are turned over on their backs, they can stop moving completely. This is a very useful technique for researchers who are often required to handle sharks. It allows them to find out more about these fascinating creatures. \n\n', 'label': '2'}
{'text': "Little Chefs\n\nFor one group of children aged between ten and fifteen, Saturdays are spent learning the art of serious cooking. Their weekly lessons in small classes are so popular that there is a waiting list of 30 children who want to do the course. Parents pay PS280 for the course where their children can have fun and learn how to make good food.\nClass member Bill, aged ten, says, 'I love my mum's cooking and now I can do it better than her. The teachers make us laugh, especially when we sit down with them to share the food we've made.'\nFlora is twelve, and she's having problems preparing onions. 'I love cooking. I did a meal for ten friends which they really enjoyed. Then my mum suggested I take up a hobby, instead of doing nothing at weekends. I was happy staying at home, so I wasn't too keen at first. I'm really glad I decided to come, though.'\nTheir teacher, Philippe, says, 'It's great fun. Children pay attention and remember things better than adults, although the kitchen isn't always as tidy when they're cooking! As adults, we're always learning more about food. If parents interest their children in cooking while they are young, they'll have enough skill to make food for themselves when they leave home.'", 'label': '2'}
{'text': "STAMP COLLECTING - IT'S A HOBBY THAT CAN GROW AND GROW\n\nMillions of people of all ages enjoy a hobby which is both interesting and fun. And every year, more and more people start a stamp collection of their own and discover an interest which can last a lifetime. Starting your collection is easy because stamps are everywhere. Holiday postcards from friends, birthday cards from favourite aunts and letters from pen friends can all provide you with stamps from all over the world. But once you've started collecting seriously, you will probably want to join the Stamp Collectors' Club which exists to provide collectors with new British stamps.\nAs a Club member you order the special sets of new stamps you want for your collection. You can receive these in three different ways. We can either post you a complete set of stamps on an envelope addressed to you, or send you the same stamps in a colourful information pack with lots of interesting facts. Or, if you prefer, we can send you the individual stamps for you to arrange in a special book of your own.\nThe Stamp Collectors' Club has about 70,000 members and you could become a member too,with a two-year membership costing just PS5. You can even get a reduction if a group of you join at the same time. We're sure you'll agree that this is great value for money.\nAnd when you join, the Club sends you a Starter Pack at no extra cost. This contains 100 stamps to begin your collection, together with an attractive box to keep them in. You also receive our helpful 4-page guide to collecting, which has further suggestions on how to add to your collection and includes useful addresses of shops and businesses that sell stamps.\nEvery two months you'll get a copy of the dub magazine, which is packed full of competitions and quizzes, and gives you the chance to exchange stamps with members around the world.\nWhy not start on an adventure which will give you years of pleasure? You'll spend many happy hours looking at the amazing variety of stamps in your collection or searching for unusual ones which you know are out there somewhere just waiting to be found. So join the Stamp Collectors' Club today and discover the fun and excitement of stamp collecting.\nTo join the Club simply complete the application form and send your membership fee. Your Starter Pack will be sent within 28 days of receipt of your application.", 'label': '2'}
{'text': "SUNNINGDALE HOTEL\n\nThe Sunningdale Hotel was built in 1913 and opened by Princess Louise. It has provided excellent service for people from all over the world and people of all ages and nationalities have stayed here. During the past 80years over 50,000 guests from 174different countries have visited Sunningdale.\nThe hotel is on one of the main roads leading to the town centre. It is about 20 minutes by bus from the centre of town and buses to many other parts of the town stop outside the hotel. Guests should be careful not to travel on buses with the blue sign Express on the front because they do not stop near our hotel. An underground station is less than 100 metres away.\nThe main building has 200 well-furnished, centrally-heated single rooms, each fitted with hot and cold water basins. Showers, baths and toilets are at the end of all corridors. The hotel has a shop, sitting rooms, four television rooms, table tennis room, library and laundry. There are also eight pianos available for guests' use. There are spaces to park cars in the hotel drive.\nDaily newspapers are provided free and stamps can be bought at the office.Guests who stay for long periods must pay for their accommodation weekly in advance and one week's notice is required for departures. Short or long term guests are welcome but long term guests are offered rooms first.\nMeal times are: breakfast 7 am - 9.30 am; lunch 1 pm - 2pm; dinner 5.30pm - 7 pm. During the week, for those studying or working late, dinner can be requested until 11pm by writing your name on the late list or by telephoning before 7 pm. A selection of 10menu choices are available for breakfast and dinner.\nNo animals of any description or fires of any type (either for heating food or heating the room) are allowed, and guests are requested to respect the comfort of others. If you have tapes or CDs, please try to keep the noise level down to a minimum, especially between the hours of 11pm and 8am.\nGuests are advised to use taxis to get to the hotel if they arrive by train because we are some distance from the main railway station.", 'label': '2'}
{'text': "MONEY \n\nWhat is money? The pound, the dollar or the franc are actually just like a gram or a kilometre. The difference is that you can exchange money for something else. A five pound note may buy a book, a huge bag of sweets, or a couple of cinema tickets. But the note itself is only a printed piece of paper which costs almost nothing to make. Thousands of years ago, people didn't have money as we know it. There were no banks or even shops. In those days, Mr Green the farmer exchanged the com he had grown for Mr Hive's honey. This was an exchange arranged between two people, each of whom had something that the other wanted. But in time, most societies invented their own 'currencies' so that people could exchange more. The different currencies began to join together, which is why today everyone uses a national currency. \n\n", 'label': '2'}
{'text': "Free-diving in the Caribbean\n\nTanya Streeter holds four world records in free-diving, the sport in which competitors reach extraordinary depths on only one breath of air.\nIn 2003, Tanya Streeter made history when she became the first person to dive 120 metres into the ocean while holding her breath, and come back up to the top without help. She had been deeper a year before but on that occasion she swam back up using a balloon. This time, however, she held her breath for over three and a half minutes, which made her the only female in any sport to break the world record of a man. A team of fourteen safety divers at different depths watched the dive.\nFollowing reports of several serious accidents involving other divers, some people have complained that free-diving is too dangerous a sport, but Tanya doesn't agree, insisting that safety is the most important thing, followed closely by training.\nMost free-divers concentrate on one or two types of event within the sport, but whatever Tanya is in training for, her practice timetable remains the same. Two thirds of the programme is spent doing land-based training at the gym, with the rest divided between the pool and the ocean. She uses an exercise bike to help improve the fitness of her heart. However, she doesn't run, whether outdoors or on running machines, because she doesn't want to injure her knees. Instead, she finds that fast walking is a very good way to build her fitness. When she starts doing practice dives, she generally travels away from home. She aims to do fourteen dives over a four-week period, with a rest day between each diving day. It is essential that she doesn't get tired because that could ruin all the preparation.\nWhen Tanya is not preparing for an event, she makes frequent public appearances, mainly to advertise sports products. She has also supported environmental organisations, for example doing research projects or making films. Spending her childhood on the Caribbean island of Grand Cayman, she went swimming whenever she could, and long afternoons were spent exploring rockpoolsinordertowatchthesealife.Tanyasaysthatherlifetodayislikelivingherchildhood dreams. Because she is well-known in some countries, she thinks people are prepared to listen to her when she is talking about environmental issues.\nAs for the future, Tanya, who is now in her thirties, says she plans to keep breaking her own world records. As she didn't take up free-diving until she was twenty-five, Tanya is keen to stress that she doesn't intend to retire from the sport for many years to come.", 'label': '2'}
{'text': "Anna's new school \n\nIt's been a very exciting week, as we've just moved into our new school building! It's an amazing place, as the builders have used wood for the whole thing, just like in our old school, but it's also one of the first in my country designed to be really environmentally friendly. \nThe school took months to build, so we saw it all happening. It was really exciting seeing the builders clear the space where it would be, although it also meant that some lovely open land disappeared. And the noise of the building machines was really loud, although the builders often had to stop work because it rained so hard. We all began to think the building would never be finished. \nWe have five classrooms now, which are enormous - much bigger than in our previous school next door, which was very old. We share one room with people in the town when they want to have meetings and so on. There's a nursery too, a lovely dining room, and really big changing rooms which we're looking forward to using as soon as our new sports field is ready. \nWhen you come into the school, one of the first things you notice is that there aren't any heaters in the building! Instead, the heat for the school comes from all of us inside it - the children, the teachers and the computers we use. The building is so well designed that it holds all the heat inside - and all the sound too, so if we sing inside our classrooms, we can almost believe we're inside a concert hall! \nAnother thing you'll notice is that the school roof has a tree on top of it! It was put there by the builders once they'd finished the roof, because they said it was the custom in Austria, the country where the roof was made. The electricity for lights and computers comes from a wind turbine on a hill behind the school. We went with our teacher to look at it yesterday, and it goes round really fast. It's so big, it can be seen for miles! We took some pictures which we're planning to put on the website. \nEven though we're already using the school building, there are still some parts to be added to it - for example, at the moment we're putting on a play for parents to come and see, but we still have to walk back to our old school hall to do it. The replacement will be ready by next year, though. We're so pleased with our new school, and our teachers say we'll all learn much faster now we're in it! \n \n\n", 'label': '2'}
{'text': 'ZOOS \n\nPeople began to keep animals in zoos over 3,000 years ago, when the rulers of China opened an enormous zoo called the Gardens of Intelligence. In many of the early zoos, animals were taught to perform for the visitors. This no longer happens and it is accepted that the purpose of zoos is for people to see animals behaving naturally. \nToday, most cities have a zoo or wildlife park. However, not everybody approves of zoos. People who think that zoos are a good idea say they provide us with the opportunity to learn about the natural world and be close to wild animals. Both of these would not be possible without zoos. On the other hand, some people disapprove of zoos because they believe it is wrong to put animals in cages, and argue that in zoos which are not managed properly, animals live in dirty conditions and eat unsuitable food. \n\n', 'label': '2'}
{'text': 'No Title\n\nThe best age to start learning the violin is between three and six," says Margaret Porter, a violinist and music teacher. "It\'s the time when you are learning about the world." Margaret, who lives in London, prefers to take pupils at three and four, although she has made lots of exceptions for keen five-year-olds. When she started teaching the violin in 1972, her first class consisted of her children\'s five-year-old school friends.\nMargaret\'s pupils have group lessons. Each group has about a dozen pupils and each lesson lasts an hour, once a fortnight. In addition, each pupil has one individual lesson a week with her. Parents also have to attend the classes. It is important that the parents take an active interest in the lessons.\nFrom the earliest lessons pupils learn to play by ear. They do not even try to read music until they have been playing for several years, and for a long time there is a big difference between their playing and reading of music. Margaret says that her method is not supposed to produce great violinists, and always suggests that pupils who perform particularly well should leave and study the violin using more traditional methods.\n\n', 'label': '2'}
{'text': "No Title\n\nSome people have complained about this year's collection, New Writing 3, although I cannot understand why. Surely 500 pages of original writing of this quality, for PS6.99, is pretty amazing?\nFiction - both parts of novels and complete short stories - makes up most of the book. There are some enjoyable pieces by famous writers, such as Candia McWilliam and Rose Tremain. It's a strange fact that the less well-known people seem to have written mainly about food. Take my advice about Jane Harris' s Those Nails - this piece should definitely not be read just after meals. It contains some very unpleasant scenes which could turn your stomach!\nThere is fine work from nineteen poets, including R. S. Thomas and John Burnside. There are pieces from novels-in-progress by Jim Crace and Jane Rogers. Finally, there is a little non-fiction, which includes a very funny article by Alan Rusbridger on certain newspapers, and an extraordinary piece about herself from Ursula Owen. This is an exceptional collection and I for one can't wait to see what next year's choice will include.", 'label': '2'}
{'text': "A JOURNEY ALONG THE BEAUTIFUL DOURO RIVER\n\nVOYAGES JULES VERNE operate a 'hotel ship' along the Douro river in Portugal. The MV Lady\nIvy May can take 160 guests in double cabins, all of which face outside and have a private shower and WC. On board the ship, which has air-conditioning, you will find a sun-deck, lounge, bar, dining room, shop and library facilities.\n\nItinerary\nDay 1 Depart in the early evening from London Heathrow to Oporto. Your guide will meet you on arrival and take you to the Lady Ivy May, where you will spend the night.\nDay 2 After a morning's sightseeing in Oporto, you will return to the ship and depart for Entre-os-Rios. This part of the journey up the river takes four hours.\nDay 3 You will continue travelling up the river. In the early evening, the ship stops at Peso da Regua, where port wine is produced. At dinner you will be able to try the delicious food and drink from this area.\nDay 4 After breakfast you will travel south by bus to the ancient town of Lamego and visit the cathedral, several churches and a museum. The museum was formerly a palace and now has an excellent collection of paintings, tapestries and sculptures. You will then return to the ship and sail on to Tua.\nDay 5 At this point the Douro becomes very narrow. Depending on the depth of the river at the time, you may be able to continue by a smaller boat to the Spanish frontier at Barca d'Alva. The return journey to Tua is by coach and there is much to see along the way.\nDay 6 In the morning you will drive to Sao Joao da Pesqueira for one of the most wonderful views in the whole of the Douro valley. You will return to the ship for lunch and then join the Douro river valley railway for a beautiful ride through the countryside to Regua, where the Lady Ivy May will be waiting for you.\nDay 7 There will be a trip to Vila Real before returning to the ship for lunch and then setting off down the river to Oporto. You will sleep on board the Lady Ivy May.\nDay 8 You will arrive in Oporto in plenty of time for independent sightseeing and last-minute shopping, before you catch the flight home to London\nHeathrow.", 'label': '2'}
{'text': "Little Chefs\n\nFor one group of children aged between ten and fifteen, Saturdays are spent learning the art of serious cooking. Their weekly lessons in small classes are so popular that there is a waiting list of 30 children who want to do the course. Parents pay PS280 for the course where their children can have fun and learn how to make good food.\nClass member Bill, aged ten, says, 'I love my mum's cooking and now I can do it better than her. The teachers make us laugh, especially when we sit down with them to share the food we've made.'\nFlora is twelve, and she's having problems preparing onions. 'I love cooking. I did a meal for ten friends which they really enjoyed. Then my mum suggested I take up a hobby, instead of doing nothing at weekends. I was happy staying at home, so I wasn't too keen at first. I'm really glad I decided to come, though.'\nTheir teacher, Philippe, says, 'It's great fun. Children pay attention and remember things better than adults, although the kitchen isn't always as tidy when they're cooking! As adults, we're always learning more about food. If parents interest their children in cooking while they are young, they'll have enough skill to make food for themselves when they leave home.'", 'label': '2'}
{'text': 'San Francisco \n\nSan Francisco lies on the coast of northern California. The earliest Europeans to discover the area were led by a Spanish explorer whose name was Gaspar de Portola. \nHe first saw it in 1769. Surprisingly, although San Francisco Bay is a wonderful natural harbour, it was discovered by land rather than by sea. \nIn 1849, people arrived in San Francisco in their thousands hoping to find gold. However, it was not the men looking for the gold that got rich. The richest people made their money from owning banks and law firms and they built themselves large houses on one of the hills. This was known as Nob Hill. \nNowadays, tourists are attracted to San Francisco because there they can see famous places like Chinatown and the Golden Gate Bridge. Many even take the short boat trip to the island of Alcatraz to see the former prison. \n\n', 'label': '2'}
{'text': "No Title\n\nWhen I injured my back I had to take a break from my running career. I decided to introduce more women to the sport, to show them how much fun it can be and to give them the confidence to get out and run.\nI decided to start a running dub for women in my area because I was annoyed by the attitude of many race organisers. They complain about the lack of women in the sport but also use this as an excuse for not providing separate changing facilities.\nI put up posters and 40 women, young and old, fit and unfit, joined. All of them were attracted by the idea of losing weight but I don't think they had really thought about running before. When or if they did, they had a picture of painful training. They didn't think of chatting and smiling while running in beautiful places, like by a river.\nAt first they ran for only a minute - now they can run for thirty minutes. They've also learned from other runners about diet and keeping fit in general.\nI wanted to do something for women's running and I've had so much pleasure watching their progress - almost as much as they've had themselves.", 'label': '2'}
{'text': 'In hot water \n\nRachel Mills is a scientist who spends as much time as she can at the bottom of the Atlantic Ocean. \n\nRachel Mills teaches and does research into marine geochemistry, which means she studies the chemical processes happening in the sea. She is a lecturer at the Oceanography Centre at Southampton University. When she isn\'t teaching, she lowers herself into a steel vehicle, a vessel for underwater exploration the size of a small car, and dives three kilometres down into the Atlantic Ocean to study underwater volcanoes. \n\'Inside,\' she says, \'space is so limited that I can reach out and touch the two pilots. They are used to these conditions, which mean we can\'t stand up or move and we must stay inside until someone opens the door from the outside. A dive can last for 16 hours - three hours to reach the ocean floor, ten hours gathering samples of rock and water and then three hours to get back up to the surface again.\' \n\'If anything happens, and you have a problem and have to get to the top quickly, you can hit a panic button. The outside drops away leaving a small circular escape vessel that gets released, and it\'s like letting go of a ping-pong ball in the bath - it goes rapidly to the surface. No-one\'s tested it yet, but I don\'t think it would be a very pleasant journey.\'\n\'I didn\'t know how I was going to react the first time I climbed into the vehicle. It was on the deck of a ship and I got in with an instructor. He then talked me through the emergency procedures; including what to do if the pilot had a heart attack! They were testing me to see how I would react to being in such a small place.\'\nNow Rachel has made six dives. Last year she dived with a Russian crew. \'We went to a site which was a five-day sail west of the Canary Islands in the Atlantic. Here, on the ocean floor, is a huge area of underwater volcanoes, their chimneys all blowing out black smoke. It is where the Atlantic Ocean comes alive. \nThe Russian team were dropping off some scientific equipment there to discover the effect of a multi-national programme that would make a hole 150 metres through a volcano.\' \nWhen she isn\'t at sea, Rachel is in her office at the Oceanography Centre, Southampton. \'Two thirds of my salary comes from teaching, which I love, but I do it so I can get on with my research into the "black smokers". This is just another name for underwater volcanoes - water comes out of the rock and turns into what looks like black smoke. This pours out at a rate of one metre per second and at a temperature of 350 degrees.\'\n\'The only time I\'ve been frightened is when I first went down with the Americans. We were towing equipment on a SO-metre rope when suddenly there was an explosion. \nThere was this immense bang as the shock waves hit our vehicle and I thought, "I\'m going to die." We stared at each other in silence, waiting. When it didn\'t happen, we couldn\'t believe it. The relief was incredible - we were still alive!\' \n\'It\'s such an adventure diving down to the deepest part of the ocean. Every time I look out of the porthole and see those chimneys, there is such a sense of wonder. Here I am on the bottom of the sea, and no-one else on this planet has ever before seen them. I had studied the black smokers for three years for my Ph.D. When I got down there and saw them for real it was such an amazing feeling.\' ', 'label': '3'}
{'text': 'An eye for detail\nArtist Susan Shepherd is best known for her flower paintings, and the large garden that surrounds her house is the source of many of her subjects. It is full of her favourite flowers, most especially varieties of tulips and poppies. Some of the plants are unruly and seed themselves all over the garden. There is a harmony of colour, shape and structure in the two long flower borders that line the paved path which crosses the garden from east to west. Much of this is due to the previous owners who were keen gardeners, and who left plants that appealed to Susan. She also inherited the gardener, Danny. \'In fact, it was really his garden,\' she says. \'We got on very well. At first he would say, "Oh, it\'s not worth it" to some of the things I wanted to put in, but when I said I wanted to paint them, he recognised what I had in mind.\'\nSusan prefers to focus on detailed studies of individual plants rather than on the garden as a whole, though she will occasionally paint a group of plants where they are. More usually, she picks them and then takes them up to her studio. \'I don\'t set the whole thing up at once,\' she says. \'I take one flower out and paint it, which might take a few days, and then I bring in another one and build up the painting that way. Sometimes it takes a couple of years to finish.\'\nHer busiest time of year is spring and early summer, when the tulips are out, followed by the poppies. \'They all come out together, and you\'re so busy,\' she says. But the gradual decaying process is also part of the fascination for her. With tulips, for example, \'you bring them in and put them in water, then leave them for perhaps a day and they each form themselves into different shapes. They open out and are fantastic. When you first put them in a vase, you think they are boring, but they change all the time with twists and turns.\'\nSusan has always been interested in plants: \'I did botany at school and used to collect wild flowers from all around the countryside,\' she says. \'I wasn\'t particularly interested in gardening then; in fact, I didn\'t like garden flowers, I thought they looked like the ones made of silk or plastic that were sold in some florists\' shops - to me, the only real ones were wild. I was intrigued by the way they managed to flower in really awkward places, like cracks in rocks or on cliff tops.\' Nowadays, the garden owes much to plants that originated in far-off lands, though they seem as much at home in her garden as they did in China or the Himalayas. She has a come-what-may attitude to the garden, rather like an affectionate aunt who is quite happy for children to run about undisciplined as long as they don\'t do any serious damage.\nWith two forthcoming exhibitions to prepare for, and a ready supply of subject material at her back door, finding time to work in the garden has been difficult recently. She now employs an extra gardener but, despite the need to paint, she knows that, to maintain her connection with her subject matter, \'you have to get your hands dirty\'.', 'label': '3'}
{'text': "Why would a schoolgirl want to swim 1500m, cycle 40km and then run 1Okm? Because 'it's fun'. \n\nTeenager with a taste for endurance \n\nWANTED: Sports-mad training partner for triathlete, preferably female. Chance to work with potential Olympic champion. Should be extremely keen on distance running (regular 15km sessions), distance swimming (addiction to winter training in cold rivers useful) and distance cycling (love of 1OOkm an advantage). Ability to do all three without a rest essential. \n\nThe triathlon promises to be one of the most popular Olympic sports. Recently it has drawn huge crowds fascinated (and horrified) by athletes swimming 1500m, cycling 40km, then running 1Okm without stopping. Great for those watching, maybe, but what makes the triathletes want to punish their bodies so much? And what makes an attractive 17-year-old, with excellent academic results, give up everything for the doubtful pleasures it offers? \nMelanie Sears has not yet learnt those often-repeated phrases about personal satisfaction, mental challenge and higher targets that most athletes automatically use when asked similar questions. 'You swim for 1500m, then run out of the water and jump on your bike, still wet. Of course, then you freeze. When the 40km cycle ride is over, you have to run 1Okm, which is a long way when you're feeling exhausted. But it's great fun, and all worth it in the end,' she says. \nMelanie entered her first triathlon at 14. 'I won the junior section - but then I was the only junior taking part. It seemed so easy that I was waving at my team-mates as I went round.' Full of confidence, she entered the National Championships, and although she had the second fastest swim and the fastest run, she came nowhere. 'I was following this man and suddenly we came to the sea. We realised then that we had gone wrong. I ended up cycling 20 kilometres too far. I cried all the way through the running.' \nBut she did not give up and is determined that she never will. 'Sometimes I wish I could stop, because then the pain would be over, but I am afraid that if I let myself stop just once, I would be [line 35: beginning] tempted to do it again.' Such doggedness draws [line 35: end] admiration from Steve Trew, the sport's director of coaching. 'I've just been testing her fitness,' he says, 'and she worked so hard on the running machine that it finally threw her off and into a wall. She had given it everything, but whereas most people step off when they realise they can't go any further, she just kept on.' \nMelanie was top junior in this year's European Triathlon Championships, finishing 13th. 'I was almost as good as the top three in swimming and running, but much slower at cycling. That's why I'm working very hard at it.' She is trying to talk her long-suffering parents, who will carry the PS1,300 cost of her trip to New Zealand for this year's World Championships, into buying a PS2,000 bike ('It's a special deal, with PS1,000 off) so she can try national 25 km and 100 km races later this year. \nBut there is another price to pay. Her punishing training sessions have made her a bit of a recluse. 'I don't have a social life,' she says. 'I'm not a party animal anyway. After two hours' hard swimming on Friday nights, I just want to go to sleep. But I phone and write to the other girls in the team.' What does she talk about? Boys? Clothes? 'No, what sort of times they are achieving.' \nWhere will all this single-mindedness end? Melanie has tried other events. She has had a go at the triathlon 'sprint', for example, where you only have to swim 750m, cycle 20km and run 5km. She wants to enter even tougher events than the triathlon. 'The big trouble is, I have no one of my age to train with,' she says. Funny, that. ", 'label': '3'}
{'text': 'No Title\n\nFinding a good flat in Dublin at a price you could afford was like finding gold in the gold rush. The best way was by personal contact: if you knew someone who knew someone who was leaving a place, that often worked. But if, like Jo, you had only just arrived in Dublin, there was no chance of any personal contact, nobody to tell you that their bedsit would be vacant at the end of the month. No, it was a matter of staying in a hostel and searching.\nFor Jo, Dublin was a very big blank spot. She really felt she was stepping into the unknown when she got on the train to go and work there. She didn\'t ask herself why she was going there in the first place. It had been assumed by everyone she went around with at school that she would go. Who would stay in a one-horse town, the back of beyond, the end of the world, the sticks? That\'s all she had heard for years. They were all going to get out, escape, see some life, get some living in, have a real kind of existence, and some of the others in her class had gone as far as the towns of Ennis or Limerick, where an elder sister or an aunt would see them settled in. But out of Jo\'s year, none of them were going to Dublin. She was heading off on her own.\nJo\'s mother thought it would be great if she stayed permanently in the hostel. It was run by nuns, and she would come to no harm. Her father said that he hoped they kept the place warm; hostels were well known for being freezing. Jo\'s sisters, who worked in a hotel as waitresses, said she must be off her head to have stayed a whole week in a hostel. But Jo didn\'t know they were all still thinking about her and discussing her, as she answered the advertisement for a flat in Ringsend. It said, \'Own room, own television, share kitchen, bathroom.\' It was very near the post office where she worked and seemed too good to be true. Please, please let it be nice, let them like me, let it not be too dear!\nThere wasn\'t a queue for this one because it wasn\'t so much \'Flat to Let\', more \'Third Girl Wanted\'. The fact that it said \'own television\' made Jo wonder whether it might be too high a class for her, but the house did not look in any way overpowering. An ordinary red-brick terraced house with a basement. But the flat was not in the basement, it was upstairs. And a cheerful-looking girl with a college scarf, obviously a failed applicant, was coming down the stairs. \'Desperate place,\' she said to Jo. \'They\'re both awful. Common as dirt.\' \'Oh,\' said Jo and went on climbing.\n\'Hello,\' said the girl with \'Nessa\' printed on her T-shirt. \'Did you see that toffee-nosed girl going out? I can\'t stand that kind, I can\'t stand them.\' \'What did she do?\' asked Jo. \'Do? She didn\'t have to do anything. She just poked around and pulled a face and sort of giggled and then said, "Is this all there is to it? Oh dear, oh dear," in a posh accent. We wouldn\'t have her in here, would we, Pauline?\'\nPauline had a psychedelic shirt on, so colourful it almost hurt the eyes, but even so it was only slightly brighter than her hair. Pauline was a punk, Jo noted with amazement. She had seen some of them on O\'Connell Street, but hadn\'t met one close up to talk to. \'I\'m Jo, I work in the post office and I rang.\' Nessa said they were just about to have a mug of tea. She produced three mugs; one had \'Nessa\' and one had \'Pauline\' and the other one had \'Other\' written on it. \'We\'ll get your name put on if you come to stay,\' she said generously.', 'label': '3'}
{'text': "SPECIALIST MUSIC SCHOOLS \n\nHow to cope with a child who shows outstanding musical ability? It's not always clear how best to develop and encourage their gift. Many parents may even fail to recognise and respond to their child's need until frustration explodes into difficult or uncooperative behaviour. And while most schools are equipped to deal with children who are especially able in academic subjects, the musically gifted require special understanding which may not always be available in an ordinary school - especially one where music is regarded as a secondary activity. Such children - as well as those whose ability is actively encouraged by parents or teachers - may well benefit from the education offered by a specialist music school. \nThe five music schools in Britain are a relatively recent introduction. They aim to provide a\nsympathetic environment in which gifted children aged between seven and eighteen can develop their skills to the full under the guidance of professional musicians.\nChildren at specialist music schools spend between one third and one half of an average day on musical activities, for example, individual lessons (up to three hours a week on first and second instruments), orchestras, chamber groups, voice training, conducting and theory. They also spend several hours a day practising in properly equipped private rooms, sometimes with a teacher. The rest of their time is taken up with a restricted academic programme, which tends to concentrate on the essential subjects - English, maths, basic sciences and languages - although provision can be made for students who wish to study a wider range of subjects. All five British specialist schools are independent, classes are small by normal school standards, with a high teacher/pupil ratio. Most children attending specialist schools tend to be boarders, leaving home to live, eat and sleep full-time at school. This means they spend their formative years in the company of others with similar aims and interests. \nWhat are the disadvantages? An obvious problem is the cost; the fees are high (PS12,000-PS17,000 a year for boarders). However, each school will make every effort with scholarships and other forms of financial assistance, to help parents of outstandingly gifted children to find the necessary fees. Secondly, not all parents want to send their children to boarding school, specially at a very early age. Almost all the directors of the specialist schools express doubts about the wisdom of admitting children as young as seven into such an intense and disciplined environment. They stress, however, that their main aim is to turn out 'rounded and well-balanced individuals'. \nThere is little doubt that setting musically gifted children apart from an early age can cause stress. Early signs of musical ability may disappear in teenage years, while natural competitiveness and the pressure to succeed can lead to a crushing sense of failure. But all specialist schools do keep a close watch on the progress of individual pupils, and offer help and advice if needed.\nIn addition, while most former pupils at music school feel that they benefited enormously from the range of high-quality music teaching available, many express reservations about the wisdom of restricting the academic programme, which definitely takes second place to musical activities. Many musically gifted young people are also highly intelligent, well able to deal with academic pressure, and feel frustrated if their intellectual needs are not met. For these reasons, it may be better to wait until the child is old enough to be able to make his or her own decisions before considering a specialist education. \nThose who are equally gifted academically may do very well within a less specialised environment; for instance, at a school with a first class music department, or else by combining a normal school routine with musical training at one of the junior departments at the music colleges. These colleges offer Saturday morning opportunities for individual lessons with fine teachers, plus orchestral and chamber music experience. But this option is clearly not practicable for families living out of reach of London or other major centres. ", 'label': '3'}
{'text': "It's true - we're all getting too big for our boots\n\nChris Greener was fourteen when he told his careers teacher he wanted to join the navy when he left school. 'What do you want to be?' asked the teacher. 'The flagpole on a ship?' The teacher had a point - because Chris, though still only fourteen, was already almost two metres tall. Today, at 228 cm, he is Britain's tallest man.\nEvery decade, the average height of people in Europe grows another centimetre. Every year, more and more truly big people are born. Intriguingly, this does not mean humanity is producing a new super race. In fact, we are returning to what we were like as cavemen. Only now are we losing the effects of generations of poor diet - with dramatic effects. 'We are only now beginning to fulfil our proper potential,' says palaeontologist Professor Chris Stringer. 'We are becoming Cro-Magnons again - the people who lived on this planet 40,000 years ago.'\nFor most of human history, our ancestors got their food from a wide variety of sources: women gathered herbs, fruits and berries, while men supplemented these with occasional kills of animals (a way of life still adopted by the world's few remaining tribes of hunter- gatherers). One research study found that they based their diet on 85 different wild plants, for example. Then about 9,000 years ago, agriculture was invented - with devastating consequences. Most of the planet's green places have been gradually taken over by farmers, with the result that just three carbohydrate-rich plants - wheat, rice and maize - provide more than half of the calories consumed by the human race today.\nThis poor diet has had a disastrous effect on human health and physique. Over the centuries we have lived on soups, porridges and breads that have left us underfed and underdeveloped. In one study in Ohio, scientists discovered that when they began to grow corn, healthy hunter-gatherers were turned into sickly, underweight farmers. Tooth decay increased, as did diseases. Far from being one of the blessings of the New World, corn was a public health disaster, according to some anthropologists.\nNevertheless, from then on agriculture spread because a piece of farmed land could support ten times the number of people who had previously lived off it as hunter-gatherers. The fact that most people relying on this system are poorly nourished and stunted has only recently been tackled, even by the world's wealthier nations. Only in Europe, the US and Japan are diets again reflecting the richness of our ancestors' diets.\nAs a result, the average man in the US is now 179cm, in Holland 180 cm, and in Japan 177 cm. It is a welcome trend, though not without its own problems. Heights may have risen, but the world has not moved on, it seems. A standard bed-length has remained at 190cm since 1860. Even worse, leg-room in planes and trains seems to have shrunk rather than grown, while clothes manufacturers are constantly having to revise their range of products.\nThe question is: where will it all end? We cannot grow for ever. We must have some programmed upper limit. But what is it? According to Robert Fogel, of University, it could be as much as 193 cm - and we are likely to reach it some time this century.\nHowever, scientists add one note of qualification. Individuals may be growing taller because of improved nutrition, but as a species we are actually shrinking. During the last ice age, 10,000 years ago, members of the human race were slightly rounder and taller - an evolutionary response to the cold. (Large, round bodies are best at keeping in heat.) Since the climate warmed, we appear to have got slightly thinner and smaller, even when properly fed. And as the planet continues to heat up, we may shrink even further. In other words, the growth of human beings could be offset by global warming.\n", 'label': '3'}
{'text': "GETTING FIT \n\nExercise is essential for mind, body and spirit. It's one of the best ways to maintain a perfect balance when all around you everything seems more and more unbalanced and the world becomes ever more fast and furious. \nDon't groan because this is yet another article about fitness. The reason why there are so many is that it is seriously good for you. There are plenty of reasons why you should exercise and very few - for most of us why you shouldn't. Exercise improves muscle tone and provides quick changes in body shape. It improves muscle power and promotes good posture - the way in which you hold your body when sitting or standing. It helps prevent those muscle imbalances which can lead to injuries. It provides quick improvement in specific problem areas such as thighs, stomach and upper arms. It improves the condition of the heart and lungs and blood circulation. \nProbably all these reasons have been thrown at you time and time again, so maybe you are bored by them and have switched off. All right then, this should make you sit up and take notice. Did you know that exercise helps to ease depression and tiredness, and that it helps to regulate sleep patterns? Also that exercise is instrumental in controlling stress? Not only this, but exercise can help to relieve certain medical conditions. \nBy now you should be influenced a little by these arguments. If not, common sense alone should tell you that exercise is good for you. \nThere are plenty of types of exercise you can do aerobics, calisthenics, jogging, working out with free weights, working on weight machines. There is one point you should note - training too hard and with too much weight may cause injury, so start slowly and carefully. If you're not sure, you should consult your doctor on what's good for you personally. \nNo amount of exercise will improve your body shape if you don't have good posture. This practically determines how you look and feel. Not only is a stiff or sagging body unattractive, it also lacks energy and is more likely to suffer from minor health complaints. \nIf your body tends to slouch, imagine that the top of your head is connected to a helium balloon, which is trying to pull you up into the sky. This will help you to lift the chest for fuller and easier breathing. At the same time, it lengthens the abdomen, making the body look much slimmer. If the chest is well balanced when you are standing, you can see your ankles. \nStretching the muscles improves flexibility and ease of movement, and helps you to maintain correct posture and to prevent muscle tears and injuries caused by overuse. If done four or five times a week, it will guarantee a more flexible,fitter body. So stretching should play an important part in your exercise routine, which should be performed both slowly and precisely. \nThe best exercise, therefore, involves a good warm-up, stretching exercises, an energetic workout and definitely a cool down period. ", 'label': '3'}
{'text': "No Title\n\nMany trees in the Brackham area were brought down in the terrible storms that March. The town itself lost two great lime trees from the former market square. The disappearance of such prominent features had altered the appearance of the town centre entirely, to the annoyance of its more conservative inhabitants.\nAmong the annoyed, under more normal circumstances, would have been Chief Inspector Douglas Pelham, head of the local police force. But at the height of that week's storm, when the wind brought down even the mature walnut tree in his garden, Pelham had in fact been in no fit state to notice. A large and healthy man, he had for the first time in his life been seriously ill with an attack of bronchitis.\nWhen he first complained of an aching head and tightness in his chest, his wife, Molly, had tried to persuade him to go to the doctor. Convinced that the police force could not do without him, he had, as usual, ignored her and attempted to carry on working. Predictably, though he wouldn't have listened to anyone who tried to tell him so, this had the effect of fogging his memory and shortening his temper.\nIt was only when his colleague, Sergeant Lloyd, took the initiative and drove him to the doctor's door that he finally gave in. By that time, he didn't have the strength left to argue with her. In no time at all, she was taking him along to the chemist's to get his prescribed antibiotics and then home to his unsurprised wife who sent him straight to bed.\nWhen Molly told him, on the Thursday morning, that the walnut tree had been brought down during the night, Pelham hadn't been able to take it in. On Thursday evening, he had asked weakly about damage to the house, groaned thankfully when he heard there was none, and pulled the sheets over his head.\nIt wasn't until Saturday, when the antibiotics took effect, his temperature dropped and he got up, that he realised with a shock that the loss of the walnut tree had made a permanent difference to the appearance of the living-room. The Pelhams' large house stood in a sizeable garden. It had not come cheap, but even so Pelham had no regrets about buying it. The leafy garden had created an impression of privacy. Now, though, the storm had changed his outlook.\nPreviously, the view from the living-room had featured the handsome walnut tree. This had not darkened the room because there was also a window on the opposite wall, but it had provided interesting patterns of light and shade that disguised the true state of the worn furniture that the family had brought with them from their previous house.\nWith the tree gone, the room seemed cruelly bright, its worn furnishings exposed in all their shabbiness. And the view from the window didn't bear looking at. The tall house next door, previously hidden by the tree, was now there, dominating the outlook with its unattractive purple bricks and external pipes. It seemed to have a great many upstairs windows, all of them watching the Pelhams' every movement.\n'Doesn't it look terrible?' Pelham croaked to his wife.\nBut Molly, standing in the doorway, sounded more pleased than dismayed. 'That's what I've been telling you ever since we came here. We have to buy a new sofa, whatever it costs.'", 'label': '3'}
{'text': 'Young Shoppers\n\nSupermarket shopping with children, one mother says, is absolute murder: \'They want everything they see. If it\'s not the latest sugar- coated breakfast cereal, it\'s a Disney video or a comic. Usually all three. I can\'t afford all this stuff and, anyway, if I agree to their demands I feel I\'ve been persuaded against my better judgement and I feel guilty about buying and feeding them rubbish. Yet I hate myself for saying no all the time, and I get cross and defensive in anticipation as we leave home. I do my best to avoid taking them shopping but then I worry that I\'m not allowing them to have the experience they need in order to make their own choices. I can\'t win.\'\nResearch has found that children taken on a supermarket trip make a purchase request every two minutes. More than PS150 million a year is now spent on advertising directly to children, most of it on television. That figure is likely to increase and it is in the supermarket aisles that the investment is most likely to be successful. For children, the reasons behind their parents\' decisions about what they can and cannot afford are often unclear, and arguments about how bad sugar is for your teeth are unconvincing when compared with the attractive and emotionally persuasive advertising campaigns.\nAccording to Susan Dibb of the National Food Alliance, \'Most parents are concerned about what they give their children to eat and have ideas about what food is healthy - although those ideas are not always accurate. Obviously, such a dialogue between parents and children is a good thing, because if the only information children are getting about products is from TV advertising, they are getting a very one-sided view. Parents resent the fact that they are competing with the advertising industry and are forced into the position of repeatedly disappointing their children.\' The Independent Television Commission, which regulates TV advertising, prohibits advertisers from telling children to ask their parents to buy products. But, as Dibb points out, \'The whole purpose of advertising is to persuade the viewer to buy something. So even if they cannot say, "Tell your mum to buy this product," the intended effect is precisely that.\'\nA major source of stress for some parents shopping with children is the mental energy required to decide which demands should be agreed to and which should be refused. One mother says she has patience when it comes to discussing food with her children, but she still feels unhappy about the way she manages their shopping demands: \'My son does pay attention to advertisements but he is critical of them. We talk a lot about different products and spend time looking at labels. I\'ve talked about it so much that I\'ve brainwashed him into thinking all adverts are rubbish. We have very little conflict in the supermarket now because the children don\'t ask for things I won\'t want to buy.\'\nParents also admit they are inconsistent, even hypocritical, in their responses to their children\'s purchasing requests. Mike, father of a son of seven and a daughter of three, says, \'We refuse to buy him the sweets he wants on the grounds that it\'s bad for him while we are busy loading the trolley with double cream and chocolate for ourselves. It\'s enjoyable to buy nice things, and it\'s quite reasonable that children should want to share that, I suppose. But I still find myself being irritated by their demands. It partly depends on how I feel. If I\'m feeling generous and things are going well in my life, I\'m more likely to say yes. It\'s hard to be consistent.\'\nSupermarkets themselves could do a lot more to ease parent-child conflict by removing sweets from checkout areas or even by providing supervised play areas. Although parents might spend less because their children are not with them, the thought of shopping without your six-year-old\'s demands would surely attract enough extra customers to more than make up the difference.', 'label': '3'}
{'text': "The Netball Captain\n\nIn our series on women in sport, Suzie Ellis went to meet England's netball captain.\n\nKendra Slawinski is captain of England's netball team. When I met her, she'd had a typical day for the weeks leading up to next month's World Championships: a day's teaching at a local school followed by a training session in the local supermarket car park.\nI was surprised to hear about her training venue.\n'Don't you get strange looks?' I asked her. 'I'm too involved in what I'm doing concentrating on my movements and my feet - to see anything else,' she said.'I might notice cars slow down out of the corner of my eye, but that's all.'\n'My whole life now is all about making sure I'm at my absolute best for the Championships,' says Kendra. I'm on a strict timetable to gain maximum fitness for them. These are her fourth World Championships and they are guaranteed to be the biggest ever, with 27 nations taking part.\n'We'll have home support behind us, which is so special,' she says. 'And it's important that the reputation of netball in this country should be improved. As a result of playing here, there will be more pressure than we're used to. A home crowd will have expectations and give more support. People will expect us to start the tournament with a good game.'\nTheir first game is against Barbados and it comes immediately after the opening ceremony. As far as I'm aware, we have always beaten them, but they'll be exciting to play. They have lots of ability.'\nThe England team are currently ranked fourth in the world. But, as Kendra points out, the World Championships will be tough. 'You have to push yourself to play each day, there's no rest between games as in a series. And you can still win an international series if you lose the first game. But the Championships are different because there's only one chance and you have to be ready to make the most of it.\nIn the fifteen years since she has been playing at top level, the sport has become harder, faster. On court, players are more aggressive. 'You don't do all that training not to come out a winner,' says Kendra.But once the final whistle blows, you become a different person. We're all friendlier after the game.' \nNetball is also taking a far more scientific approach to fitness testing.\n'It is essential that we all think and train like world-class players,' says Kendra.\nAs captain, I think it's important that I have a strong mental attitude and lead by example. I see my role as supporting and encouraging the rest of the team.'\n'From the very beginning, my netball career has always been carefully planned,' she says. So I took the decision some time ago that this competition would be the end of it as far as playing is concerned.\nDoubtless she will coach young players in the future, but at the moment her eyes are firmly set on her last big event. As she leads out her team in the opening candlelight ceremony, she is more than likely to have a tear in her eye. Her loyal supporters will be behind her every step of the way.", 'label': '3'}
{'text': "Gary and Me\n\nThe restaurant owner John Moore writes about his relationship with his son Gary, the famous TV chef.\nI believe everyone's given a chance in life. My son, Gary, was given his chance with cooking, and my chance was to run a restaurant. When I heard about the opportunity, I rushed over to look at the place. It was in a really bad state. It was perfect for what I had in mind.\nComing into this business made me recall my childhood. I can remember my mother going out to work in a factory and me being so upset because I was left alone. With that in mind, I thought, 'We want time for family life.' My wife dedicated herself to looking after the children and did all my accounts, while I ran the business. We lived over the restaurant in those days, and we always put a lot of emphasis on having meals together. It's paid dividends with our children, Gary and Joe. They're both very confident. Also, from a very early age they would come down and talk to our regular customers. It's given both of them a great start in life.\nGary was quite a lively child when he was really small. We had a corner bath, and when he was about seven he thought he'd jump into it like a swimming pool, and he knocked himself out. When he was older he had to work for pocket money. He started off doing odd jobs and by the age of about ten he was in the kitchen every weekend, so he always had loads of money at school. He had discipline. He used to be up even before me in the morning. If you run a family business, it's for the family, and it was nice to see him helping out.\nGary wasn't very academic, but he shone so much in the kitchen. By the age of 15 he was as good as any of the men working there, and sometimes he was even left in charge. He would produce over a hundred meals, and from then I knew he'd go into catering because he had that flair. So when he came to me and said, 'Dad, I've got to do work experience as part of my course at school,' I sent him to a friend of mine who's got a restaurant.\nGary recently took up playing the drums and now he has his own band. Goodness knows what will happen to the cooking if the music takes off. My advice to Gary would be: if you start chasing two hares, you end up catching neither, so chase the hare you know you're going to catch. He understood when I said to him: 'Gary, if you're going to get anywhere in life, you've got to do it by the age of 30. If you haven't done it by then, it's too late.'\nGary went to catering college at the age of 17, and on his first day he and the other new students -they're normally complete beginners - were given what's supposed to be a morning's work. But within an hour Gary had chopped all his vegetables, sliced all his meats. He'd prepared everything. That's my son for you! In the end, he was helping other people out.\nNone of us can believe how successful Gary's TV cookery series has become. I'm extremely proud of him. I've always tried to tell him that if you want something, you've got to work jolly hard for it, because no one gives you anything. He's seen the opportunity he's been given and grabbed hold of it with both hands. You know, you talk to your children as they grow up, and if they only take in ten per cent of what you've told them, you've got to be happy with that. The things Gary says, the things he does, I think, well, he must have listened sometimes.", 'label': '3'}
{'text': "In the lumberyard by the lake, where trees from the woods were turned into boards for construction work, there was an old brick building two floors high, and all around the outside walls were heaped great piles of soft sawdust. There were many of these golden mountains of dust covering that part of the yard right down to the blue lake. That afternoon, bored with having nothing else to do, all the fellows followed Michael up the ladder to the roof of the old building and they sat with their legs hanging over the edge looking out across the lake. Suddenly Michael said, 'I dare you to jump down,' and without thinking about it, he pushed himself off the roof and fell on the sawdust where he lay rolling around and laughing. 'I dare you all!' he shouted. 'You're all cowards,' he said, encouraging them to follow him. Still laughing, he watched them looking down from the roof, white-faced and hesitant, and then one by one they jumped and got up grinning with relief. \nIn the hot afternoon sunlight they all lay on the sawdust pile telling jokes till at last one of the fellows said, 'Come on up on the old roof again and jump down.'There wasn't much enthusiasm among them, but they all went up to the roof again and began to jump off in a determimed desperate way till only Michael was left and the others were all down below grinning up at him calling, 'Come on, Mike. What's the matter with you?' Michael wanted to jump down there and be with them, but he remained on the edge of the roof, wetting his lips, with a silly grin on his face, wondering why it had not seemed such a long drop the first time. For a while they thought he was only fooling them, but then they saw him clenching his fists tight. He was trying to count to ten and then jump, and when that failed, he tried to take a long breath and close his eyes. In a while the fellows began to laugh at him; they were tired of waiting and it was getting on to dinnertime. 'Come on, you're a coward, do you think we're going to sit here all night?' they began to shout, and when he did not move they began to get up and walk away, still shouting. 'Who did this in the first place? What's the matter with you all?' he called. \nBut for a long time he remained on the edge of the roof, staring unhappily and steadily at the ground. He remained all alone for nearly an hour while the sun, like a great orange ball getting bigger and bigger, rolled slowly over the grey line beyond the lake. His clothes , were wet from nervous sweating. At last he closed his eyes, slipped off the roof, fell heavily on the pile of sawdust and lay there a long time. There were no sounds in the yard, the workmen had gone home. As he lay there he wondered why he had been unable to jump and then he got up slowly and walked home feeling deeply ashamed and wanting to avoid everybody. \nHe was so late for dinner that his stepmother said to him coldly, 'You're big enough by this time surely to be able to get home in time for dinner. But if you won't come home, you'd better try staying in tonight.' She was a well-built woman with a fair, soft skin and a little touch of grey in her hair and an eternally patient smile on her face. She was speaking now with a controlled severity, but Michael, with his dark face gloomy and miserable, hardly heard her; he was still seeing the row of grinning faces down below on the sawdust pile and hearing them laugh at him. ", 'label': '3'}
{'text': 'Young Shoppers\nSupermarket shopping with children, one mother says, is absolute murder: \'They want everything they see. If it\'s not the latest sugar- coated breakfast cereal, it\'s a Disney video or a comic. Usually all three. I can\'t afford all this stuff and, anyway, if I agree to their demands I feel I\'ve been persuaded against my better judgement and I feel guilty about buying and feeding them rubbish. Yet I hate myself for saying no all the time, and I get cross and defensive in anticipation as we leave home. I do my best to avoid taking them shopping but then I worry that I\'m not allowing them to have the experience they need in order to make their own choices. I can\'t win.\'\nResearch has found that children taken on a supermarket trip make a purchase request every two minutes. More than PS150 million a year is now spent on advertising directly to children, most of it on television. That figure is likely to increase and it is in the supermarket aisles that the investment is most likely to be successful. For children, the reasons behind their parents\' decisions about what they can and cannot afford are often unclear, and arguments about how bad sugar is for your teeth are unconvincing when compared with the attractive and emotionally persuasive advertising campaigns.\nAccording to Susan Dibb of the National Food Alliance, \'Most parents are concerned about what they give their children to eat and have ideas about what food is healthy - although those ideas are not always accurate. Obviously, such a dialogue between parents and children is a good thing, because if the only information children are getting about products is from TV advertising, they are getting a very one-sided view. Parents resent the fact that they are competing with the advertising industry and are forced into the position of repeatedly disappointing their children.\' The Independent Television Commission, which regulates TV advertising, prohibits advertisers from telling children to ask their parents to buy products. But, as Dibb points out, \'The whole purpose of advertising is to persuade the viewer to buy something. So even if they cannot say, "Tell your mum to buy this product," the intended effect is precisely that.\'\nA major source of stress for some parents shopping with children is the mental energy required to decide which demands should be agreed to and which should be refused. One mother says she has patience when it comes to discussing food with her children, but she still feels unhappy about the way she manages their shopping demands: \'My son does pay attention to advertisements but he is critical of them. We talk a lot about different products and spend time looking at labels. I\'ve talked about it so much that I\'ve brainwashed him into thinking all adverts are rubbish. We have very little conflict in the supermarket now because the children don\'t ask for things I won\'t want to buy.\'\nParents also admit they are inconsistent, even hypocritical, in their responses to their children\'s purchasing requests. Mike, father of a son of seven and a daughter of three, says, \'We refuse to buy him the sweets he wants on the grounds that it\'s bad for him while we are busy loading the trolley with double cream and chocolate for ourselves. It\'s enjoyable to buy nice things, and it\'s quite reasonable that children should want to share that, I suppose. But I still find myself being irritated by their demands. It partly depends on how I feel. If I\'m feeling generous and things are going well in my life, I\'m more likely to say yes. It\'s hard to be consistent.\'\nSupermarkets themselves could do a lot more to ease parent-child conflict by removing sweets from checkout areas or even by providing supervised play areas. Although parents might spend less because their children are not with them, the thought of shopping without your six-year-old\'s demands would surely attract enough extra customers to more than make up the difference.', 'label': '3'}
{'text': "Week after week, British tabloid newspapers carry pictures which intrude into people's privacy and break the newspaper editors' code of practice. Although pop stars do pose for paparazzi on occasion, this is not typical. More usually, great damage is done to [line 6: beginning] individuals in the public eye when they see their most [line 6: end] private moments captured on the front page. Yet very few call on the services of the Press Complaints Commission (PCC), an organisation that was set up to deal with issues of this kind. \nRarely, if ever, are these pictures in the public interest. Do intimate shots of pop stars help to detect a crime? In what way did the picture of a famous actress on a hotel bedroom balcony protect public health and safety? The actress has made a fuss about long-lens pictures in the past and since she was in a hotel, a place where, to quote the code of practice, 'there is a reasonable expectation of privacy', she had good cause for complaint, but she didn't take any action. \nThat the PCC did not launch an investigation itself is a scandal. It should also be looking into the outrageous story published recently about a pop star's love life. The pop star, like the famous actress, has held back from making a formal complaint. Shouldn't the PCC [line 25: beginning] take the initiative on this and other shameful attacks? [line 25: end]\nTo begin with, this seems like a great idea. It would surely lead to many decisions against newspapers. These would be reported by their rivals and broadcast on TV and radio. The public would not be sympathetic and editors would have to refuse to publish such material. Even photographers would be affected, no longer finding it financially possible to spend their days hidden behind trees waiting to snap unsuspecting celebrities. \nIf the PCC decided to take on this role of 'police officer', which it technically could, there would be several problems. How would it decide whether or not to launch an inquiry? Should it approach the victim and encourage him or her to make a complaint? And if the person involved still refused to do anything, should it proceed nevertheless? In addition, celebrities and members of royalty might well expect that any story involving them would be taken up, and then be outraged to find it wasn't. Above all, the role itself is too enormous. How could the PCC realistically monitor the whole of the British press: national, regional and magazines? \nThen there is the embarrassment factor to consider. However seriously someone's privacy has been invaded, would they really want the further embarrassment of an investigation? I suspect the majority simply want to put it behind them and get on with their lives. Of course, one or two may have other reasons for keeping quiet. A worse story may exist, that they have managed to keep from the press, and they realise that this may also become public knowledge if they complain. In other words, even the PCC might become the enemy. \nOne British comedian also suffered at the hands of the press when he and his wife were secretly photographed on their honeymoon in the Caribbean. He didn't complain then, nor more recently, when he and his family were again victims of a sneak photographer during a family holiday. His reason for this was fear that the newspaper, News of the World, would re-run the pictures with a new story about his 'fury', saying that they thought it was just a bit of fun, and that, being a film star who made comedies, they thought he had a sense of humour. This fear is understandable. People believe they will again become targets if they dare to challenge the tabloids. It is hard to see an easy solution to this serious problem. ", 'label': '3'}
{'text': "Visit to Malaysia\n\nPaul Forster goes to a kite-flying festival, and spends a nervous night in the forest. \n\nAdnan Ali smiled broadly as I presented him with his torn kite. 'You have to keep it,' he said, 'it's traditional - if the line breaks, finders are keepers ... and anyway, I've plenty more.' He indicated a pile of intricately decorated kites at his feet. All were precisely 120cm wide and long, and made of tissue paper and split bamboo. \nWe sat down next to them in the shade of the whispering coniferous trees that are behind the Beach of the Seven Lagoons in the state of Kelantan, and looked out over Malaysia's biggest and most serious kite festival.\nIn the centre of the beach stood 10 platforms, where helpers held up the kites, and a row of tense competitors holding the lines of their kites waited for the countdown. On the blast of the whistle, the crowd roared and the kites rose into the air like rockets. \nMore than 500 men and boys had registered for the competition, which runs for five days every year. Each had entered four different designs which were to be judged on decoration, stability in the air and flying efficiency. \n'Flying kites isn't so difficult,' said Adnan, 'but making them takes real skill. Visit me at home and I'll show you how it's done.' The invitation was one of five I'd received that day, and I decided to accept. \nBack in his house I drank cold milky tea and ate fish crackers in a large polished room. As dusk fell, he told me to come again the next day to start rebuilding his kite but my plans didn't allow it. \nInstead I explored the southern half of the state, pointing my car inland on the road to Kuala Lumpur, into granite mountains dripping with luxuriant rainforest. I took a wrong turning and the smooth road ended suddenly at a river. \nA needle-shaped boat was waiting to ferry pedestrians across. Near it, a small sign caught my eye. It pointed up a footpath into the forest and read: 'Jelawang Jungle 3 km.' \nBefore setting off, it would have been useful to know that nearly all of this distance was uphill, steep and slippery. When I got to the track, however, I found a chap waiting with a flask of tea. \nThis was Baba, who looked after a tented kitchen and a dozen or so bamboo huts. I decided to stay there, determined not to think twice about insects crawling under my thin foam mattress. \nNight was totally black, full of different sounds. A waterfall roared nearby and thousands of living things moved and squeaked. In the morning there was a tremendous view over five ranges of green mountains. In the afternoon it rained. \nFirst wind, then lightning lashed the treetops. Seconds later I was wet through. Sliding downhill, I wondered how the scores of giant butterflies avoided the enormous drops. \nOther thoughts included the possibility of my car being swept away (it sometimes happens) and the likelihood of drowning if I opened my mouth. Fortunately the car was still there, covered in mud, at the bottom of the track. \nNo one is a stranger for long here. Back in Kota Bahru, Kelantan's capital, everyone fired questions at me: 'Where are you from?' 'How old are you?' \nBut in the asking there was nothing but friendliness. Kelantan might be best known for its kites but I remember it more for its human kindness. ", 'label': '3'}
{'text': "Style Merchants\n\nStyle informs every part of our lives today from clothes to interior decoration and accessories. Jo Foley provides a taste of the trends for this year's followers of fashion.\nNed Ingham: Dress Designer\nNed Ingham makes dreamy, romantic wedding dresses. 'People would do well to avoid the traditional, rather stiff dresses and the 'frilly' look in favour of much simpler styles,' he explains. Ingham has been drawing and designing wedding dresses since he was a schoolboy. Then, at the age of 16, he enrolled at fashion school, where he gained the technical skills to cut and construct clothes. But you do not have to be a bride to own an Ingham dress: he also designs long, classic evening dresses, given a fresh touch by up-to-the-minute colours and fabrics. For the less adventurous, Ingham's designs include a classic summer navy-blue suit, the centrepiece of the Englishwoman's wardrobe for most of the 20th century. But in his hands, it looks as new as tomorrow.\nSally Quail: Jeweller\nAlthough she once worked for an art dealer, Sally Quail has had no formal training in jewellery. It was only when she could not find an engagement ring she liked that she decided to design her own. The resulting enquiries encouraged her to set up as a designer in 1990. Now her pieces are sought out by many stars of stage and screen. Her signature style is large semi-precious stones set in gold to make magnificent necklaces, bracelets and rings fashioned after those worn in the 18th century. However, she has recently begun to use the most precious stone of all - diamonds. 'It must reflect my age,' says 36- year-old Quail. 'I reached that moment in every woman's life when she wants a diamond and that is when I began working with them.'\nLily Grimson: Handbag Designer\nJust four years after setting up in the fiercely competitive fashion business, Lily Grimson, with only an introductory course in art and design behind her, has had two of her creations selected for a major design exhibition. Whatever the shape and form of her designs, they are never ignored. All of Grimson's fashion bags are handmade in the UK.\nThe Grimson handbag is not simply a container - the bags are full of glamour, whether fashioned from the finest calfskin or the heaviest silk. A combination of chic and care makes a Grimson bag something special.\nPeter Little: Hairdresser\nFor over 20 years, Peter Little has taken his scissors to some of the world's top heads. Everyone who is anyone has had their hair styled by this man. 'Most women want real-looking hair and a style they can manage at home,' he says. So his approach is a novel one - to ensure that his clients never appear as if they have just walked out of a salon. But this carefree attitude and casual look does not come cheap - PS250 for the first appointment, and there's a three-month waiting list. Trading on his celebrity, Peter has produced his own range of hairdryers and other styling equipment. Now, those who can't make it to his salon can create their own styles back at home.\nPenny Pratt: Florist\nIn addition to running her tiny shop, Penny Pratt is a flower consultant for a large chain of supermarkets and provides floral ideas to a number of top restaurants. All of this is good going for someone who has no floristry qualifications and gave up her job as a teacher 10 years ago in order to do 'something different'. And her simple, yet incredibly modern, creations have begun to capture every design prize in the flower business, which has helped her in setting up her own London Flower School. She has recently combined her skills on extremely successful lecture trips to Japan and the USA. She says, 'Flower arrangements are much simpler these days. Keep them simple but strong and don't have too many leaves - they are too large and architectural. For wedding bouquets, whatever your arrangements, the golden rule remains: the flowers must be of the same species.'\n", 'label': '3'}
{'text': "Meet the Amazing Watkins Family\n\nThe sons are composers and prize-winning musicians, while Dad makes the instruments. Matthew Rye reports.\nWhole families of musicians are not exactly rare. However, it is unusual to come across one that includes not only writers and performers of music, but also an instrument maker.\nWhen South Wales schoolteachers John and Hetty Watkins needed to get their ten-year-old son, Paul, a cello to suit his blossoming talents, they baulked at the costs involved. 'We had a look at various dealers and it was obvious it was going to be very expensive,' John says.\n'So I wondered if I could actually make one. I discovered that the Welsh School of Instrument Making was not far from where I lived, and I went along for evening classes once a week for about three years.'\n'After probably three or four goes with violins and violas, he had a crack at his first cello,' Paul, now 28, adds. 'It turned out really well. He made me another one a bit later, when he'd got the hang of it. And that's the one I used right up until a few months ago.' John has since retired as a teacher to work as a full-time craftsman, and makes up to a dozen violins a year - selling one to the esteemed American player Jaime Laredo was 'the icing on the cake'. Both Paul and his younger brother, Huw, were encouraged to play music from an early age. The piano came first: 'As soon as I was big enough to climb up and bang the keys, that's what I did,' Paul remembers. But it wasn't long before the cello beckoned. 'My folks were really quite keen for me to take up the violin, because Dad, who played the viola, used to play chamber music with his mates and they needed another violin to make up a string trio.\nI learned it for about six weeks but didn't take to it. But I really took to the character who played the cello in Dad's group. I thought he was a very cool guy when I was six or seven. So he said he'd give me some lessons, and that really started it all off. Later, they suggested that my brother play the violin too, but he would have none of it.'\n'My parents were both supportive and relaxed,' Huw says. 'I don't think I would have responded very well to being pushed. And, rather than feeling threatened by Paul's success, I found that I had something to aspire to.' Now 22, he is beginning to make his own mark as a pianist and composer.\nMeanwhile, John Watkins' cello has done his elder son proud. With it, Paul won the string final of the BBC Young Musician of the Year competition. Then, at the remarkably youthful age of 20, he was appointed principal cellist of the BBC Symphony Orchestra, a position he held, still playing his father's instrument, until last year. Now, however, he has acquired a Francesco Rugeri cello, on loan from the Royal Academy of Music. 'Dad's not said anything about me moving on, though recently he had the chance to run a bow across the strings of each in turn and had to admit that my new one is quite nice! I think the only thing Dad's doesn't have - and may acquire after about 50-100 years - is the power to project right to the back of large concert halls. It will get richer with age, like my Rugeri, which is already 304 years old.' \nSoon he will be seen on television playing the Rugeri as the soloist in Elgar's Cello Concerto, which forms the heart of the second programme in the new series, Masterworks. 'The well-known performance history doesn't affect the way I play the work,' he says. 'I'm always going to do it my way.' But Paul won't be able to watch himself on television - the same night he is playing at the Cheltenham Festival. Nor will Huw,whose String Quartet is receiving its London premiere at the Wigmore Hall the same evening. John and Hetty will have to be diplomatic - and energetic - if they are to keep track of all their sons' musical activities over the coming weeks.", 'label': '3'}
{'text': "Five-star luxury meets up-to-date technology\nThe five-star Merrion Hotel, which has just opened, is the result of considerable research into customer requirements and nearly two years' work converting four large eighteenth-century houses in Dublin. Creating a new hotel in this way has allowed the latest technology to be installed. This has been done for the benefit of staff and guests alike.\nAt the Merrion, General Manager Peter MacCann expects his staff to know the guests by name. However, for details of his guests' preferences, he relies on the hotel's computer system. It can deal with return clients in the extra-special way that is appropriate to a five-star hotel.\nThough the system cost PS250,000 to install, it will pay itself over time, according to MacCann. He praises its efficiency and talks enthusiastically of the facilities it offers.\nFor example, a guest who requests certain music CDs during a first stay will find those same CDs ready for him on a return visit. This is thanks to the guest-history facility which allows staff to key in any number of preferences.\nHotel guests the world over frequently complain about room temperature. Another hi-tech system controls this essential area of comfort. Guests have the opportunity to change the temperature themselves within three degrees either side of the normal l8degC but, in addition, each individual room can be adjusted by any amount between 14degC and 25degC at the front desk.\nFor guests, though, it is the other technology offered in their rooms which is most likely to find favour. This is particularly true for the business user, and MacCann estimates that up to sixty-five per cent of his business will come from this part of the market. To provide the best service for such needs, the hotel has taken the traditional business centre and put it into individual bedrooms. Each one has three phones, two phone lines, a fax machine that doubles as a photocopier and printer, and a video-conferencing facility.\nTechnology changes so quickly these days that the hotel has had to try to forecast possible improvements. Extra cables have been laid to handle whatever scientific advances may occur. The televisions are rented rather than bought, so that they can be replaced with more up-to- date models at any time. DVD recorders can also be upgraded when necessary.\nDespite the presence of all this very up-to-the-minute equipment in the rooms, MacCann says they have tried hard not to make guests feel threatened by technology. The one hundred and forty-five bedrooms, large and well-furnished, are both comfortable and welcoming. There are, of course, a swimming pool and gym, six conference rooms, two bars and two restaurants, and a beautiful garden at the heart of it all.\nAs at all luxury hotels, the food that is offered to guests must be excellent. Chef Patrick Guilbaud's Dublin restaurant already had two Michelin stars when he agreed to move his restaurant business to the Merrion. Being part of the hotel site has huge benefits, both for him and the hotel itself. He has been able to design a new kitchen and take it into the modern age. There are better parking facilities than at the previous address, too. From the hotel's side, they are able to offer a popular and successful place to eat, with no financial risks attached. Aided by technology and a highly capable staff, the Merrion looks likely to succeed.\n\n", 'label': '3'}
{'text': 'Onto a winner\n\nTwo brothers are finding that their childhood game is very good for business.\nDave and Norm Lagasse, two bushy-bearded brothers in their forties, are sitting in their modest home in Santa Fe in New Mexico, USA, and reliving their childhood. In front of them lies a wooden board covered in round plastic pieces. They are playing the ancient game of pichenotte, one which, they insist, is unlike any other.\nTheir grandfather, Lucien Rajotte, a grocer originally from Quebec, Canada, brought the game into the USA and introduced it to his family. It wasn\'t long before, on just about every weekend and holiday, the family were playing the game and, as Dave says, \'having the best time ever\'. Eventually, the family moved to New Mexico. But Grandpa\'s pichenotte board, which he\'d made out of old wooden food crates, was not forgotten and they continued to play regularly. If visitors dropped by they were often fascinated, for the game was completely unknown in southern USA.\nOne day, three years ago, Dave set up the ancient pichenotte board and, realising how cracked and battered it had become, decided to make a new one. This turned out to be a beauty. A relative noticed and wanted one. Then a friend wanted another. Curious as to how great the interest might be, one night the brothers took one of Dave\'s new game boards to a sports bar in Santa Fe. \'People there started to watch,\' says Dave, \'and say, "No way I\'m playing that silly game." Then they\'d sit down, and pretty soon you couldn\'t them up from the table!\'\nWhen people started asking about the origins of the game, Dave decided to do some research. The roots, he discovered, were probably in India, where a similar game called \'carroms\' exists. That was adapted into a game called \'squails\' which was played in pubs in Britain and, a century ago, British people emigrating to Canada brought the game with them. Pichenotte is the name of the French-Canadian version of the game that developed in Quebec.\nPichenotte, which can be played by two to four people, is clearly a game of skill. Each competitor gets 12 pieces or \'pucks\'. These are \'flicked\' across a wheel-like board using the middle or index finger of one hand. Flicking a puck into a small hole is worth 20 points. Three concentric rings around the hole are worth 15, 10 and 5, respectively. Eight tiny posts present obstacles. The game usually lasts just two minutes.\nWhen they saw how popular the game was at the Santa Fe bar, the Lagasses made a couple more boards and took them to markets and craft fairs. Crowds gathered, money changed hands and the game\'s popularity grew. So much so that championships began to take place and a trophy called the \'Lord Pichenotte Cup\' was created. With word spreading more widely, the boards began to sell as fast as the brothers could make them. Eventually, they decided to go into the pichenotte business full-time.\nThey set up a workshop in the garage of their house and started turning out boards. More than 450 have been produced to date. Made of birchwood and mahogany, each weighs 12kg and is lcm thick. As Norm explains, \'They\'re very durable, as they have to stand up to lots of wear.\' They are available, at $595 each, from the brothers\' website.\nAs yet, there are no professional pichenotte players or TV coverage to produce pichenotte celebrities. Nonetheless, the day is not far off when the brothers\' garage will be home to a luxury Mercedes rather than a saw and piles of wood. Until then, they\'re happy to spend their off-duty hours playing the game they hope will make their fortune.', 'label': '3'}
{'text': "Five-star luxury meets up-to-date technology\n\nThe five-star Merrion Hotel, which has just opened, is the result of considerable research into customer requirements and nearly two years' work converting four large eighteenth-century houses in Dublin. Creating a new hotel in this way has allowed the latest technology to be installed. This has been done for the benefit of staff and guests alike.\nAt the Merrion, General Manager Peter MacCann expects his staff to know the guests by name. However, for details of his guests' preferences, he relies on the hotel's computer system. It can deal with return clients in the extra-special way that is appropriate to a five-star hotel.\nThough the system cost PS250,000 to install, it will pay itself over time, according to MacCann. He praises its efficiency and talks enthusiastically of the facilities it offers.\nFor example, a guest who requests certain music CDs during a first stay will find those same CDs ready for him on a return visit. This is thanks to the guest-history facility which allows staff to key in any number of preferences.\nHotel guests the world over frequently complain about room temperature. Another hi-tech system controls this essential area of comfort. Guests have the opportunity to change the temperature themselves within three degrees either side of the normal l8degC but, in addition, each individual room can be adjusted by any amount between 14degC and 25degC at the front desk.\nFor guests, though, it is the other technology offered in their rooms which is most likely to find favour. This is particularly true for the business user, and MacCann estimates that up to sixty-five per cent of his business will come from this part of the market. To provide the best service for such needs, the hotel has taken the traditional business centre and put it into individual bedrooms. Each one has three phones, two phone lines, a fax machine that doubles as a photocopier and printer, and a video-conferencing facility.\nTechnology changes so quickly these days that the hotel has had to try to forecast possible improvements. Extra cables have been laid to handle whatever scientific advances may occur. The televisions are rented rather than bought, so that they can be replaced with more up-to- date models at any time. DVD recorders can also be upgraded when necessary.\nDespite the presence of all this very up-to-the-minute equipment in the rooms, MacCann says they have tried hard not to make guests feel threatened by technology. The one hundred and forty-five bedrooms, large and well-furnished, are both comfortable and welcoming. There are, of course, a swimming pool and gym, six conference rooms, two bars and two restaurants, and a beautiful garden at the heart of it all.\nAs at all luxury hotels, the food that is offered to guests must be excellent. Chef Patrick Guilbaud's Dublin restaurant already had two Michelin stars when he agreed to move his restaurant business to the Merrion. Being part of the hotel site has huge benefits, both for him and the hotel itself. He has been able to design a new kitchen and take it into the modern age. There are better parking facilities than at the previous address, too. From the hotel's side, they are able to offer a popular and successful place to eat, with no financial risks attached. Aided by technology and a highly capable staff, the Merrion looks likely to succeed.\n\n", 'label': '3'}
{'text': 'A NEW LIFE\nThe Farmer\nMatt Froggatt used to be an insurance agent in the City of London but now runs a sheep farm.\n\'After 14 years in business, I found that the City had gone from a place which was exciting to work in to a grind - no one was having fun any more. But I hadn\'t planned to leave for another five or ten years when I was made redundant. It came out of the blue. I didn\'t get a particularly good pay-off but it was enough to set up the farm with. My break came when I got to know the head chef of a local hotel with one of the top 20 hotel restaurants in the country. Through supplying them, my reputation spread and now I also supply meat through mail order. I\'m glad\nI\'m no longer stuck in the office but it\'s astonishing how little things have changed for me: the same 80- to 90-hour week and still selling a product.\'\nThe Painter\nRon Able white was a manager in advertising but now makes a living as an artist.\n\'My painting began as a hobby but I realised I was getting far more excitement out of it than out of working. The decision to take redundancy and to become an artist seemed logical. The career counsellor I talked to was very helpful. I think I was the first person who had ever told him, "I don\'t want to go back to where I\'ve been." He was astonished because the majority of people in their mid-forties need to get back to work immediately- they need the money. But we had married young and our children didn\'t need our support. It was a leap into the unknown. We went to the north of England, where we didn\'t know a soul. It meant leaving all our friends, but we\'ve been lucky in that our friendships have survived the distance - plenty of them come up and visit us now.\'\nThe Haymaker\nAfter working for five years asa company lawyer, Katherine Goodison set up her own business in her London flat, making hats for private clients.\n\'My job as a lawyer was fun. It was stimulating and I earned a lot of money, but the hours were terrible. I realised I didn\'t want to become a senior partner in the company, working more and more hours, so I left. A lot of people said I\'d get bored, but that has never happened. The secret is to have deadlines. Since it\'s a fashion-related business,you have the collections, next year\'s shapes,the season-there\'s always too much to do, so you have to run a very regimented diary. I feel happier now, and definitely less stressed. There are things I really long for, though, like the social interaction with colleagues. What I love about this job is that I\'m totally responsible for the product. If I do a rubbish job, then I\'m the one who takes the blame. Of course, you care when you\'re working for a company, but when your name is all over the promotional material, you care that little bit more.\'\nThe Masseur\nPaul Drinkwater worked in finance for 16years before becoming a masseur at the Life Centre in London.\n\'I had been in financial markets from the age of 22, setting up deals. I liked the adrenaline but I never found the work rewarding. I was nearly made redundant in 1989, but I escaped by resigning and travelling for a year. I spent that year trying to work out what I wanted to do. I was interested in health, so I visited some of the world\'s best gymnasiums and talked to the owners about how they started up. I knew that to change career I had to get qualifications so I did various courses in massage.Then I was offered part-time work at the Life Centre. I have no regrets. I never used to feel in control, but now I have peace of mind and control of my destiny. That\'s best of all.\'', 'label': '3'}
{'text': "Conduct becoming \n\nGiving directions to an orchestra is never easy. Anne Inglis talks to five new conductors about their work. \n\nA. ANNE MANSON \n\nWhen Anne Manson, 30, asked if she could attend conductor Claudio Abbado's practice sessions in Vienna, she found herself standing in for an absent assistant. She was then asked to help on another opera the next season. 'I had to take the first orchestral rehearsal for Abbado. No, I wasn't nervous. I always had a good attitude to standing up in front of an orchestra.' American-born Manson works with a well established London-based opera company which concentrates on modern works. She is also building a reputation in other European countries, which she has visited with financial aid from the British Arts Council, and, since that first occasion, she has assisted Abbado on several more projects. \n\nB. ANDREW CONSTANTINE \n\nThe most difficult part of being a conductor is deciding how to convince people to present you with the right opportunities; saysAndrew Constantine, 31, who won a major competition in 1991, after failed attempts in two other contests. Looking back, he is grateful for the timing: 'If it had happened any earlier, I am sure I would have disappeared without trace: The competition provided many performance opportunities and a period as assistant to a well-known conductor, but Constantine is finding it difficult to lose the 'competition' label: 'If in three years' time my name is still associated with the competition then I will be worried,' he says.'But orchestras such as the English Chamber Orchestra who took me on after the competition are now inviting me back. If this doesn't happen,your career will gradually fall to pieces.' \n\nC. WASFI KANI \n\nWasfi Kani, who set up Pimlico Opera, loves the long practice period which is part of any opera production. 'The music is worth four weeks' attention; says Kani, who started conducting seriously in her late twenties. After university, she supported herself by working in London's commercial centre until Pimlico Opera turned fully professional two years ago. Starting lessons \nwith Sian Edwards was the key moment for her. 'I saw her conduct and realised she was the same size as me - I had always been taught by much bigger people which makes a huge difference.' She likes the complicated nature of opera: 'There are lots of arguments, and you've got singers' personalities to consider ... ' \n\nD. ROGER VIGNOLES \n\n'Conducting has come upon me as something of a surprise, but it holds great fascination for me,' says Roger Vignoles, 48. In fact, it's not such a strange career move. He started out as a resident musician with an opera house, and worked with good conductors. Last year he was asked to direct Handel's Agrippina from the piano at a festival, something he had never done before. 'It was much less difficult than I thought. I found I knew the music well, I knew what I wanted it to sound like, and I tried my best to get the performance I wanted. Fortunately, people have respected my ability as a musician generally. I am benefiting from every piece of experience I've ever had, both in musical style and in the actual business of performing. Now I will do whatever people ask me to do so I can find out what I like doing.' \n\nE. WAYNE MARSHALL \n\nIt was back in 1986 that the conductor Simon Rattle noticed a young assistant conductor on one of his productions and told his agent about Wayne Marshall. Marshall, now 32, soon found himself conducting a musical in London at short notice, a difficult beginning. He even had to deal with some over-relaxed professional musicians reading newspapers during the show: 'I was just tough with them. I always gave a clear beat and got the best result I could. A lot of orchestral musicians I've seen don't seem to need advice and instruction from a conductor. But I'm never afraid to say what I want. If people see you're worried, it gets worse. I've never studied conducting formally and no book tells you how to conduct but people have been kind to me. I am determined and I know what I like.' \n", 'label': '3'}
{'text': "Confident people what's their secret?\n\nConfident people may look as though they were born that way, but most will tell you that it's a skill they've learned because they had to. Nina Hathway asks five people how they did it.\n\nA Jenny\n\nWhen I left school I was very shy and I always thought I'd stay that way. I was about twenty-five when I was asked to help out at my daughter's school. I was sure I wouldn't cope, but I surprised myself by doing well and someone there suggested that I should do a university course.\nThere was a huge knot in my stomach the day I turned up for my first lecture. But my confidence gradually grew - I became more outgoing. Looking back, working at the school was the turning point in my life that has helped everything else fall into place.\n\nB Michaela\n\nIt all started four years ago when my father became ill and I had to take over the family business. I was so scared, I went over the top and became a bit too aggressive and impatient. I thought that was what confident people were like, but gradually I learned otherwise. To be confident you've got to believe in yourself.\nIf things get too demanding for me at work, I don't let myself feel guilty if I save a number of tasks until the next day. When I'm confronted with something difficult, I tell myself that I've got nothing to lose. It's fear that makes you lack confidence, so I'm always having quiet chats with myself to put aside those fears!\n\nC Lisa\n\nPeople think I'm very confident but, in fact, the calmer I look, the more terrified I really am. I've had to develop the ability to look confident because it's the most vital thing in TV. Interviewing people has helped me realise that most - if not all - of us get tense in important situations, and we feel calmer when we speak to someone who's genuinely friendly. The best ever piece of advice came from my mother when I was agonising as a teenager about wearing the right clothes. She simply cried, 'Who's looking at you? Everybody's too busy worrying about how they look.' I've found that's well worth remembering.\nI also think you gain confidence by tackling things that scare you. When I took my driving test I was so nervous, but I passed. After that I felt sure that I'd never feel so frightened again, and I never have.\n\nD Barbara\n\nMy confidence comes naturally from really enjoying the work I do, but it's something that I've built up over the years. If you just get on with it and learn from any mistakes you make, you're more confident the next time round. I work hard and I'm popular in the restaurant, but it's probable that one out of ten people doesn't like me. I don't let that affect me. You've got to like yourself for what you are, not try to be what others expect.\nMy company runs a lot of training courses, and going on those has built up my self-esteem. The company also encourages employees to set manageable targets. It helps no end if you can see you're achieving something tangible, rather than reaching for the stars all at once, and ending up with nothing but air!\n\nE Kim\n\nAfter I left college I worked for years as a secretary and would sit in meetings, not always agreeing with what was being said, but too scared to speak up. Eventually, I summoned up the confidence to start making my point. Even so, when I first worked in politics, I'd never spoken in public before and always used to shake like a leaf. I would say to myself, 'Don't be so silly. People do this every day of their lives, so there's no reason why you can't.' I also found it helpful to jot a few things down to refer to - rather like having a comfort blanket!\nI don't think there is anyone who isn't a little shaky when it comes to talking publicly. The real secret of confidence lies in telling yourself over and over again, 'Nothing is impossible.'", 'label': '3'}
{'text': "The kingfisher\n\nWildlife photographer Charlie James is an expert on the kingfisher: a beautiful blue-green bird that lives near streams and rivers,feeding on fish.\nOld trees overhang the stream, half shading shallow water. Soft greens, mud browns and the many different yellows of sunlight are the main colours, as soft as the sounds of water in the breeze. The bird cuts like a laser through the scene, straight and fast, a slice of light and motion so striking you almost feel it. It has gone in a split second, but a trace of the image lingers, its power out of proportion to its size.\nCharlie James fell in love with kingfishers at an early age. A sure sign of his depth of feeling for this little bird is his inability to identify just what it is that draws him to it. After all, it is the stuff of legend. Greek myth makes the kingfisher a moon goddess who turned into a bird. Another tale tells how the kingfisher flew so high that its upper body took on the blue of the sky,while its underparts were scorched by the sun.\nThere is some scientific truth in that story. For despite the many different blues that appear in their coats, kingfishers have no blue pigment at all in their feathers. Rather, the structure of their upper feathers scatters light and strongly reflects blue.\nThis is why a kingfisher may appear to change from bright blue to rich emerald green with only a slight change in the angle at which light falls on it. It's small wonder that some wildlife photographers get so enthusiastic about them. Couple the colours with the fact that kingfishers, though shy of direct human approach, can be easy to watch from a hideout, and you have a recipe for a lifelong passion.\nCharlie Jame's first hideout was an old blanket which he put over his head while he waited near a kingfisher's favourite spot. The bird came back within minutes and sat only a metre away. But it took another four years, he reckons, before he got his first decent picture. In the meantime, the European kingfisher had begun to dominate his life. He spent all the time he could by a kingfisher-rich woodland stream.\nThe trouble was, school cut the time available to be with the birds. So he missed lessons, becoming what he describes as an 'academic failure'. But his interest in this, the world's most widespread kingfisher and the only member of its cosmopolitan family to breed in Europe, was getting noticed.\nAt 16, he was hired as an advisor for a nature magazine. Work as an assistant to the editor followed, then a gradual move to life as a freelance wildlife film cameraman. What he'd really like to do now is make the ultimate kingfisher film. 'No speech,just beautiful images which say it all,' he says. 'I'm attracted to the simple approach. I like to photograph parts of kingfisher wings ...'\nThe sentence trails off to nothing. He's thinking of those colours of the bird he's spent more than half his life close to, yet which still excites interest. The photographs succeed in communicating something of his feelings. But, as Charlie knows, there's so much more to his relationship with the kingfisher than his work can ever show.", 'label': '3'}
{'text': "My line of work\n\nFour people talk about their jobs.\nLisa - Exhibition Programmes Organiser, Science Museum\nI'm responsible for putting temporary exhibitions together. This includes planning and designing the exhibition and promoting it. I have to read up about the subject of the exhibition beforehand and then talk to important people in the area so that I can establish the main themes and aims of the exhibition, and plan what objects and pictures should be displayed. I have to make sure the public can understand the thinking behind the exhibition, which means planning interactive displays, workshops and theatre. I also have to bring in engineers and electricians to make sure the final display is not dangerous to visitors. Before the exhibition opens, I help design and write the brochures and leaflets that we'll use to tell people about it.\n\nJanet - Teacher of London Taxi Drivers\nThe first thing I do when I get here at 7.30 a.m. is check the accounts. Then I see what new maps and documents need to be produced in order to learn the 'runs' or routes necessary to pass the London taxi-driver test. By midday, about 50 students are in school, working out how to make the journeys. They work out the most direct route, using the correct one-way streets, and right- and left- hand turns. I get involved when there's a difference of opinion - like whether you can do a right turn at a particular junction. When they're close to the test, I'll give them a simple route and no matter what way they say they'll go, I'll tell them they have to use another route because the road is closed. The next student will have to find a third route and again I'll come up with a reason why they can't go that way. It's just to make them think.\n\nSarah - Marine Conservationist\nI live by the coast and work from home. This involves responding to telephone enquiries, producing educational resources and setting up training courses. Occasionally, I go into our main office but generally I am on the coast. I also work with schools and study centres and run courses for coastal managers and those involved in making decisions about the fate of the seas.I do things like take them out to sea in a boat in an attempt to make them think more about the life underneath them. This often changes their views as it's very different from making decisions using a computer screen. I am extremely lucky because conservation is my hobby, so the job has many highs for me. The downside of the job is that I work for a charity, so there is a constant need for more money. This means I'm always looking for more resources and I'm not able to achieve everything I want.\n\nChris - Map and Atlas Publisher\nMy work is pretty varied. I have to make sure that the publishing programme matches market requirements, and ensure that we keep stocks of 300 or so of the books that we publish. We have very high standards of information and content. We receive many letters from readers on issues such as the representation of international boundaries and these in particular require a careful response. I discuss future projects and current sales with co-publishers. I work as part of an enthusiastic group which makes the job that much more enjoyable. The negative side, as with many jobs, is that there is far too much administration to deal with, which leaves less time to work on the more interesting tasks such as product development and design.\n", 'label': '3'}
{'text': "ICE SKATING \n\nIce skating has a history of thousands of years. Archaeologists have discovered skates made from animal bone. It seems that bone skates were used until the introduction of iron into Scandinavia about the year 200 AD. Among the Scandinavian upper classes, skating was seen as an essential skill. \nIn the early twentieth century, skating was stylish and reserved, but at the 1924 Winter Olympics, 11- year-old Sonja Henie introduced a more athletic attitude which inspired a new wave of popularity. Nowadays art and athletics are combined and modern skating is both graceful and physically demanding. \nFor the beginner, balance and control are all important and speed can only increase with proficiency. The position of your body plays a great part in balance. Legs slightly bowed and the knees bent keep the body weight centred; in effect the body leans slightly forward in this position. For skating, probably more than any other sport or recreation, relaxation is vital.\nFor the starting position, the heels should almost be touching and the feet should be turned outwards. While pushing forward with the back foot, you make a very small movement with the other foot. Fairly easy, isn't it? If you can keep this up for a while, you can then slowly increase the length of your movements as you gain experience. \nKnowing how to fall must be learnt among the skater's first skills. Even the best of the professionals fall. In order to fall without injury, you should be as relaxed as possible. In this way the shock of hitting the ice is lessened. To get up, use your hands to get into a kneeling position, then stand. \nOnce you have learnt to move on the ice with confidence, there are various styles to be practised - figure skating, free style, distance, speed, skating in pairs, and so on - but the basis of them all, and by far the best approach, is first to learn figure skating and then elementary freestyle. With proper guidance available at most of the ice rinks throughout the country, the basic figures can soon be learnt and the turns, jumps and spins of elementary free style will soon follow. \nIf you look at any good or professional skater, you will see how relaxed they are and how easily they move. To achieve this an exercise programme should be regularly practised. It can be dangerous to skate with a stiff body and warm-up exercises should at least include those for the legs, back and shoulders, with special emphasis on the ankles and the knees. After a long or intense session, the same exercises should be used afterwards to avoid stiffness. \nSkating improves balance, co-ordination, relaxation and movement. It improves heart and lung activity and generally strengthens the body. Combined with swimming or jogging, it provides a great programme for all-round health and fitness. ", 'label': '3'}
{'text': "Keeping the holiday-makers happy\n\nA chalet girl's work is never done, Sarah Sutherland-Pilch tells Veronica Lee - in between making beds and delicious dinners.\nThis is the second year as a chalet girl for Sarah Sutherland-Pilch, a 24-year-old from West Sussex. Known by her nickname, Pilch, Sarah works for a company in Val d'lsere, France, cooking and cleaning for visitors who come to ski and stay in the wooden houses, known as chalets, that are characteristic of the area. Sarah graduated in French and History of Art from Oxford Brookes University last summer. Being a chalet girl isn't a career, she says, but an enjoyable way to spend a year or two before settling down. 'It's a good way to make contacts. I meet successful people every week.'\nSarah does not 'live in'. She gets up at 7 a.m: to walk the mile or so to the chalet, which sleeps up to 18guests each week. She has her own breakfast before preparing that of the guests. 'They get the works - porridge, eggs, cereals, fruit and croissants.' When the last of the guests has had breakfast, by about 9.30 a.m., Sarah clears up and either makes the afternoon tea, which is left for the guests to help themselves to, or cleans the rooms - 'the worst part of the job,' she says.\nBy about 11 a.m. she is ready to go on the slopes herself. She skis as much as possible. 'On a good day we can be up there until 4.30 p.m.' Sarah returns to the chalet in time to prepare dinner and takes a shower before doing so, but does not sleep. 'It's fatal if you do,' she says. Dinner, a three-course affair, is served at 8 p.m. and coffee is usually on the table by 10 p.m. Sarah clears away the dinner things and fills the dishwasher. 'There's nothing worse than coming in to a messy kitchen the next morning.' Sometimes she will stay and chat with the guests, other times they are content to be left alone. 'Good guests can make a week brilliant - breakfast this morning was great fun - but some weeks, for whatever reason, don't go quite so well.'\nSarah meets her friends in the chalet where she lives - and they go out at about 11 p.m. 'We usually start off in Bananas, might go to G Jay's and perhaps Dick's T-Bar at the end of the evening,' she says. But Sarah never stays out too late on Saturday night as Sunday is her busiest time of the week. 'A frightful day,' she says, 'when you certainly don't want to be cooking breakfast feeling exhausted.' \nWork begins earlier than usual on Sunday, since breakfast for guests who are has to be on the table by 7 a.m. As soon as the guests are gone, Sarah starts cleaning madly. 'We just blitz the place - clear the breakfast, strip the beds, get everything ready.' If she hasn't already done the week's shop on Saturday, Sarah does it now.\nAt around 3 p.m., the cleaning work done, Sarah then prepares tea for the new guests. 'They get here at around 4.30 p.m. Sometimes they are disorientated and full of questions. I'm sure it's the mountain air that does something to them.'\nBetween tea and dinner, Sarah takes any guests needing boots or skis down to the ski shop and then gets a lift back to the chalet from one of the ski shop staff. It is soon time for dinner duty again and perhaps a chat with friends, but not always. 'Sometimes I'm so tired I just have an early night,' she says.", 'label': '3'}
{'text': "Dedicated to their sports\n\nFour young sports stars talk about their lives.\nA Darius (runner)\nI've always been sporty. I played a bit of everything at one time, but I was best at football and athletics. When I was 14, I had a trial for a professional football club, but eventually I opted to go down the athletics route instead. My biggest moment came when I got to compete for my country in the youth team and got a medal. It didn't result in much media attention, though, which was a shame. I'd been hoping some sponsorship would come out of it, because the training doesn't come cheap. I train at home all winter and then go away for three weeks, usually Florida, before the season starts. It's good fun - there are great athletics facilities there and the nightlife's great too. You've got to be really disciplined, though. If friends ask me to go out the night before training, I have to say no. I wish I didn't, but dedication pays in this sport. The main goal for me is to get to the next Olympics -that would be fantastic.\n\nB Gabriel (surfer)\nThe surfing community is small, so you get to meet the same guys wherever you compete. Professional surfers are very serious and often the best waves are at dawn, so if you're really going to get anywhere, you have to cut out late-night parties altogether. I don't mind that so much, but I do love having a lie-in, and I usually have to give that up too. But it's worth it,because without that kind of dedication I might not have won the National Championships last year. I make sure that a big night out follows any win, though, and if there's cash involved in the winnings, I'll go away somewhere really nice. And, of course, the sacrifices are worth it in the long run because winning that championship meant I got picked to present a surfing series on TV. I guess I'm a bit of a celebrity now.\n\nC Dieter (yacht racer)\nWith five lads on a boat together, you have a good laugh. We're very traditional and we always celebrate a win in great style. It's been said that we act a bit childishly when we're out, but we don't actively go looking for media coverage. Sometimes the reporters actually seem more concerned about where you go out celebrating and what you get up to there than about where you came in the race. I'm away for eight months of the year, so it's great to get back, go out with my mates from other walks of life and do the things they do. You can't live, eat and breathe the sport all the time- it's not healthy. I'm known within the world of sailing, but fortunately I can count the number of times I've been recognised in the street on the fingers of one hand. I'd hate to become some sort of celebrity. I get a lot of nice letters from people wanting signed pictures, though. It may take ages, but I reply to every one. It would be cheeky to complain, even if it does take a bit of organising.\n\nD Tomas (tennis player)\nIt's always a great thing to walk on court and feel that the crowd's behind you. At the last tournament, though, it all got a bit crazy with people crowding around. Despite that, I have to admit that I do still get quite a thrill out of being spotted by fans when I'm out shopping or something. It has its downside though. My last girlfriend didn't like it if I got too much attention from female fans. The thing is,tennis players have to travel quite a lot, and in the end that's why we split up, I guess. That was hard, but you've got to make sacrifices in any sport; you've got to be serious and professional. Actually, it doesn't really bother me too much. I'm content to concentrate on my game now and catch up on the other things in life once I've retired, because, after all, that comes pretty early in this sport.", 'label': '3'}
{'text': "Favourite places\n\nBruce\nI don't like landscapes which are completely untamed. It's the human element which is important to me. It's the same when I travel abroad. Lovely villages with old temples attract me, not empty deserts. When I was eight, I went away to school in England and on Saturdays I would cycle to the village of Lastingham in its lovely valley. Cycling was a release from school. I loved exploring the bleak hilltops, the sheltered valleys and old villages. Coming from Scotland myself, I found the landscape familiar yet different and I still go back there today. I used to describe my adventures in my private diary. In a way, that was my first attempt at travel writing, at which I subsequently made my name.\n\nSophia\nThere is a miniature railway that goes from Hythe to Dungeness, run by amateurs. I always travel first class as it doesn't cost much more than the regular fare. The scenery is not spectacular. The train moves across Romney Marsh with its sheep, and alongside a canal. But there is one point on the journey that I always look forward to - when our miniature world takes a detour through back gardens. For a few moments, we passengers spy on people at random points in their day, making a cup of tea, doing the washing up, unfolding a deckchair. I see myself in their eyes, a woman in a tiny train carriage, looking into other people's homes. It's the ordinariness of the landscape that attracts me. Just fields and sheep and a distant grey sea. That makes me look more closely, to search for something that opens my eyes.\n\nMatthew\nThe Hartland Peninsula is a remote and lovely coast. The beaches are hard to reach and scattered with rocks, so crowds are largely non-existent here. They attract a few brave surfers but most visitors prefer instead to reflect on the majesty of the sea. The coast, which faces the Atlantic, is notorious for shipwrecks. There are coast walks which you can combine with trips inland up beautiful damp valleys, full of oak trees, ferns and wild flowers. We stay in modest self-catering accommodation with a family who have some property in the village of Southole.\n\nAnnette\nMy favourite place in England is the Trough of Bowland, a landscape of wide-open moorland which is perfect for hiking. There are not many residents and not many visitors either. It's an unknown corner, empty and remote, and I like the feeling of space. I discovered the area by chance when I was a student, and since then I've made an annual visit, either alone, or with my boyfriend, and now with my son. It has changed little since my first visit. Having a child makes these visits more special. It makes me sad that he's growing up in an urban environment.\n\nJames\nI purchased Glenthorne, my favourite house in Britain. It was a question of obtaining pure peace and reconnecting with my English roots and coming home. I grew up in what is now known as Sri Lanka, but at the age of twelve went to school in Devon, in the west of England. I used to cycle around the moors and village backstreets. We had a story about a place we would never cycle past: if you went down the driveway you'd never return.That place was Glenthorne. It's the place of my dreams. It's a magic, secluded, romantic house. You can't hear anything except sea, wind and birds.\n\n", 'label': '3'}
{'text': 'Trills and bills \n\nIf there\'s one thing guaranteed to send tears running down your cheeks, it\'s the sight of a brilliant child collecting a medal. Julia Gregson asked three young stars, and their mothers, to describe some of the pleasures and pains of their lives. \n\nA. \nAnnika Reeder, 15, won a gold medal for gymnastics at the Commonwealth Games. Her ambitions are to become a physiotherapist and compete at the next Olympics. \'The work is very hard at the moment. There is no time to watch television, or go out with friends or do much more than gym and school. I try to take the training day by day, and when I feel very, very tired sometimes my coach gives me a day off, but usually I just carry on - you can\'t take too many days off, it makes you stiff.\' \n\nB.\nAnnika\'s mother\n\n\'From an early age Annika showed tremendous potential. I\'ve seen some parents try to push their children and it doesn\'t work. To perform at the level Annika does is so demanding of time and energy you have to want to do it yourself. People tell me all the time that we, as parents, have given up so much, but what they don\'t see is what the sport\'s given us. We love it and what it\'s done for Annika. Before she did gym she was a very shy little girl who sucked her thumb and hid behind me, but now she\'s met people from all over the world and she\'s got the confidence of success.\' \n\nC. \nSarah Stokes made her first show-jumping appearance at ten. Since then \nshe has won the British National Championship. \'It\'s a good job my mum and dad like show-jumping because they train me and have to take me everywhere in the horse box. The shows are from one day to five days long. I don\'t ever get tired of it - I love show-jumping events, they are exciting and fun. Even if I didn\'t have Mum and Dad, I would do it because I am so determined. I\'m \nglad they are happy when I win, but I\'m not doing it for them. My goal this year is to qualify for the British young riders (under-18) team. My really big ambition is to win a gold medal at the Olympics.\' \n\nD. Sarah\'s mother\n\n\'From the moment Sarah sat on a horse, age 1, that was it, her passion. When she was 5, she used to get up before us all to exercise her pony. To qualify for major shows you have to jump all over England. To save money, we sleep in the living quarters of our horse box. Sarah is well organised. She is 100% happy on a horse, she knows what she\'s doing. Watching your child succeed at something they love is hard to beat.\' \n\nE. Jane McShane, 10, is Britain\'s Under-14 Chess Champion. \'It\'s really friendly at tournaments. I know everybody and it\'s fun. When I\'m playing, I don\'t concentrate. I should do really, but instead I just stare around and don\'t bother to think. I\'m not scared of getting big-headed, I don\'t talk about my success at school. I don\'t like embarrassment.\' \n\nF. Jane\'s mother\n\n\'Jane played her first game when she was 5. My father said, "Let\'s see if she likes it." My father had tried to teach me when I was young and I used to sit there bored, but Jane loved it from the start. By the end of that afternoon she had memorised all the moves, and by 6 was starting to beat adults. When she\'s won of course I\'m pleased, but if she said she wanted to give it all up tomorrow, I wouldn\'t stand in her way. On the other hand I don\'t want to do the awful thing of putting somebody down because they are exceptional. If she has this gift, let her fulfil her potential.\' ', 'label': '3'}
{'text': "Careers Advice \n\nYou're not happy in your job at the moment, but you don't know how to change? Kitty Doherty gives some good advice. \n\n \nThe answer for more and more people who want to change their job is to turn to a careers adviser. You will be asked to write a brief history of yourself and then sit through a number of tests known as 'psychometrics'. A summary of the findings is then given and various careers are suggested, as well as the possible retraining needed. \nI decided to try out Career Analysts, one of the largest organisations giving career advice. Taking the careers test was like being back in my science exams. I was with a group of about ten people and we were answering questions against the clock. I had to remember that it wasn't about passing or failing. It was hard to see how the psychometrics would give an accurate picture of me. They involved things like picking out mistakes in lists of names and numbers and matching up similar shapes in a set. \nI then had a long chat with an adviser and from this, plus the results of the test, he produced a report giving his observations and recommendations. I agreed with most of the adviser's conclusions, though I was a little dismayed to find out that I had done quite badly in the scientific, technical and practical tests. I am sure that a lot of sick people are glad that I never became a nurse. It was reassuring, though, to be told that I had made the correct decisions as far as journalism was concerned. \nRethinking your career needn't involve a massive change of direction. Last March, after working as a marketing manager with a large insurance company for five years, Donna Laney, 25, lost her job. Her friends suggested she go to Career Analysts for help. 'Losing my job was the perfect opportunity for me to take a step back and look at my career to date. I wanted to re-examine the skills and interests I have,' says Donna. Some of the results were surprising. 'I hadn't realised that I had such a gift for design. But in the end I had to balance the cost of retraining in design against my financial commitments,' she says. Other suggestions were put forward, such as taking a year off and working in the Far East. \n'I decided to use the skills I already had and move into something more suited to me than insurance. I am now working as a Public Relations officer. I am sure I would have got to this point without Career Analysts but they helped me realise, objectively and independently, what I definitely wanted to do. I have sent half a dozen friends there, who are all happy with the service.' \nThere are those who feel that they definitely would not have got to that point without help. A visit to Career Counselling Services led 26-year-old Juliet Greene to make some life-changing decisions. 'After working for a major bank for six years, I decided my job was dull and I needed a new challenge. I had no idea what I wanted to do so I went to Career Counselling Services with a completely open mind. I took the tests, which showed I was interested in sciences,' she says. 'I had four sessions with an adviser. The third session was taped, which I found very useful, as you forget many of the things you say. After the fourth meeting, having listened carefully to what the results of the tests were telling me, I made the decision that I wanted to do geology and I plan to start a degree course in it later this year. I think that the advice given by Career Counselling Services was well worth the fee. I'm a lot happier now and far more positive.' \nHowever, careers advice doesn't work for everyone. Amanda Margetts, a 24-year-old sales representative, says: 'I had reached a stage in my career where I didn't know where to go. I thought a careers adviser might suggest something I had never thought of. Although I was given a host of new ideas, I rejected them as they either required a substantial drop in salary or considerable retraining. I wasn't told anything about myself that I didn't know/ she says. 'You have to provide the adviser with an enormous amount of personal information and I just felt that if I had told a friend the same thing, they would have given me similar advice.' ", 'label': '3'}
{'text': "It's a tough job? \n\nChris Arnot asks four people with dream jobs if they're as wonderful as they seem. \n\nA. Raquel Graham \n\nRaquel Graham rings from the taxi taking her to the airport. She can't make our appointment tomorrow because her boss wants her to be in Los Angeles instead. When you're personal assistant to a pop star, you're expected to jet around the world at the drop of a hat. Raquel loves her job and gets on well with her boss. \nThere's just one minor problem - she can't stand flying. 'On a nine-hour trip to California I usually take sleeping tablets to help calm me down,' she admits. Her worst experience was being on Concorde. 'It seemed so shut in with those tiny windows.' \nOffices in Manchester and London occupy her when she comes down to earth. There's some mundane paperwork to get through - organising the diary, sitting in on meetings with solicitors and accountants, sorting out itineraries and making yet more travel arrangements. \nShe didn't apply for the job. A chance meeting with the manager of a pop group led to the offer of work behind the scenes and she took a secretarial certificate at evening classes at the same time. Five years later she was in the right place at the right time when her boss needed a PA. \n\nB. David Brown \n\nDavid Brown has been an accountant and a golf caddy; a man who carries a golfer's bags. On the whole, he preferred the golf. Well, so would you if golf was your passion. There were drawbacks however. A small flat fee is on offer, plus a percentage of the winnings. The average earnings are between PS25,000 and PS35,000 and much of that will go on travel and hotels. \nHe was 31 when he first caddied for the golfer, Greg Norman. 'You're not just carrying bags. You're offering advice, pitting your knowledge against the elements and trying to read the course.' \nHis accountancy skills were recently recognised by European Tour Productions when they made him statistical data administrator. From cards brought in by the caddies, he compiles and analyses the statistics of each day's play. The results are sought after by television commentators, golfing magazines, and the golfers themselves. \n\nC. Martin Fern \n\nMartin Fern is the editor of the 'Food and Drink' pages of a daily newspaper and one of his less difficult tasks is to sample what's on offer in the finest restaurants. What does he think about restaurants that charge exorbitant prices? 'For those who can afford it, it's up to them,' he says. 'I'd rather spend PS120 on a meal I'll remember for the rest of my life than buy a microwave.' \nIt was his talent as a cook that led to the offer of a food column from a friend who happened to edit a Saturday Review. For Martin, at the time creative director of an advertising agency, it was a useful secondary income. He was 42 when another newspaper rang to offer a full-time job. 'It meant a 50 per cent cut in guaranteed income,' he says. 'But it was a chance to convert my passion into a profession.' \nHe still does all the cooking at home and tries to keep his waistline under control by cycling a couple of miles to the nearest tube station. \n\nD. Dick Prince \n\n'I started writing children's stories about 20 years ago,' says Dick Prince, one of Britain's most popular children's writers. 'Before that, I had always loved words and enjoyed using them, but my writing had mainly been verse. Then I had this idea for a story. I had been a farmer, and knew the problem of chickens being killed by a fox. \nSo I wrote a kind of role reversal story called The Fox Busters, which became my first published children's story.' \nWhere do his ideas come from? 'Well, it's not easy, I have to work at them,' he says. 'That is what I usually do in the mornings. I'm not up with the dawn, I'm afraid. After lunch, I spend another couple of hours typing out the morning's scribbling - all of which I do with one finger on an old portable typewriter rather than on one of those awful laptops. \nI get between 50 and a hundred letters a week and that is the part about being a writer that I enjoy the most. I do try to answer them all, but nowadays I have some secretarial help.' ", 'label': '3'}
{'text': "Running a business in the countryside \n\nFive women talk about their experiences setting up a business in the countryside. \n\nA.\n'My customers are friends,' says CHRISTINE HOGAN, who runs a computer-aided design business with a turnover of over PS200,000 a year and four full-time employees. 'My husband and I moved out of London to the country when our children were small, and I wanted work I could do at home. I had worked with computers before I was married, so my husband suggested I set up a computer-aided design business. It needed a huge amount of money and things were difficult in the beginning. But I have been very careful, making sure that I told the bank manager if I was likely to overspend. Being in the house is a big saving, and I can carry on working in the evening if I want. It has remained a small business. We hardly ever deliver work - people from the area tend to collect it from us.' \n\nB.\n'I enjoy being independent,' says MAGGY SASANOW, who works from home as a designer of greetings cards. 'I trained in art at university, and wanted to work in a museum. But when I married, we went to live in the countryside, where there wasn't that sort of work. So I decided to set up my own business and I produce a range of 50 greetings cards which I sell to museums. I work in a big room upstairs. The disadvantage of working from home is that there is always something that needs doing - like mowing the lawn. My business comes completely by word of mouth - I don't advertise at all. People send work down from London as I am cheaper than other artists. Working alone, I don't get to exchange ideas with other people any more, but generally there are more advantages than disadvantages.' \n\nC.\n'It has been hard at times,' says DELIA TURNER, whose curtain-making business has seen good times and bad. 'I started my business eight years ago. Then this type of business was expanding, and in two years my turnover went from PS24,000 to PS80,000. I used to manage six full-time curtain-makers. But I had to sack them because of the decline in the economy, which was painful because it is not easy to find other jobs in this area. I am right back almost to where I started, making the curtains at home myself, with my husband's help, and using women who work from their homes. I have to be prepared to cut my prices when it's necessary and to look at different opportunities.' \n\nD.\nTESSA STRICKLAND runs the editorial and production side of her children's book publishing business from her farmhouse. 'I moved to the countryside three years ago for two reasons. The first was financial, because London was so expensive, and the second was because I love the country. I enjoy being able to work when I want to. Eighty per cent of my income comes from deals with Australia, the Far East and North America, so I have to take calls at odd hours. The disadvantage is that it requires discipline to shut the office door. I publish children's books from cultures around the world, working with authors and artists. All my professional experience had been in London, so I used to feel very alone at first.' \n\nE.\nMEG RIVERS runs a cakes-by-post business and a shop with a turnover of PS250,000 a year and employs six people, some part-time. 'I started ten years ago at home. I am very interested in health, so I started making fruit cakes, using good quality flour and eggs. Then I started getting requests from friends and relatives, and soon I was sending cakes all over the country. Seven years ago I rented a small building and everything is made there - we have a baker and assistant, and a professional cake-icer. I don't cook at all now, as I run the commercial side. My greatest problem has been the financial side of the business, which has been difficult simply because we didn't have an enormous amount of money to set up with.' ", 'label': '3'}
{'text': "HAPPY HUNTING GROUND \n\nWe're 'animal people' who enjoy the company of all kinds of creatures. Consider this typical chain of events, leading to total confusion, which began one afternoon. My daughter telephoned me at work with the news that she had found a wonderful pine snake. \n'Can we keep him?' she cried. I said 'Yes, but only overnight.' We had set up a special tank for just such passers-through, overnight being long enough to admire and look them up in our well-used natural history book. \nI was late getting home. I hurriedly put a pot on to boil just as screams of 'Oh, Mother! Help! Do something!' came from my sons' bedroom. I leapt to it. \nThe crisis involved Domino the cat and Bianca the white mouse given to me as a Mother's Day present. (I've [line 23: beginning] heard that some mothers get [line 23: end] perfume.) Domino, with mouse feet waving from his jaws, ran round and round the bedroom that was crowded with furniture and children. \nLooking for a way out so he could enjoy his catch, Domino had so far avoided the forest of waving arms. I threw myself into the confusion and promptly tripped over something or someone to find myself on the floor. \nAs I thought about dropping my full weight on Domino when he next came past, my eyes locked on the snake. It had escaped - or, more correctly, was escaping. It was pouring itself up and out and off the table and all over the floor. I crouched like a rabbit at the approach of its bullish head, and long powerful body. \nThe snake and I were now both being jumped over by cat/mouse/kids in a screaming, leaping, hissing mass - the snake striking at every moment, the dog barking wildly. \nThe pot boiled over in the kitchen and I raced to shut off the gas, returning to the battle with new strength. This time I successfully captured Domino by the tail, and pulled the small, damp and miraculously uninjured mouse from his growling jaws. Incidentally, the same mouse was caught by the same cat three more times during its lifetime, but eventually died of old age. \n[line 60: beginning] Encouraged by my success with the [line 60: end] cat, I looked the snake over for weak points. It didn't have any. In the end, I sat on the floor like a snake-charmer, rocking backwards and forwards, but without a flute. Gradually the snake relaxed enough to drop its head on to its piled-up body, but its eyes still shone with suspicion. I eventually ever-so-slowly eased my hands beneath the piled-up snake and gradually raised myself to a kneeling position, then I stood up and walked to the very end of the garden where I gave the snake the choice of living happily ever after on the garden shed by pointing it in the direction of a handy tree. \nBut when I finally gathered enough courage to release the snake's head - fully expecting it to swing instantly around to crush my face in its powerful jaws - it slid away from the tree and up over my shoulders where, like a colourful leathery shawl, it gave every sign of making itself comfortable for the winter. \nWe stood in the gathering dusk, four young children, Mum and the snake. DJ, my eldest, broke the heavy silence with a scientific explanation: 'You know what it is, Mum? You're nice and fat and warm, and the shed isn't.' I had the children gather at the snake's tail end and gently encourage it to move on. Slowly and unwillingly it did so. Without a backward glance, the snake travelled smoothly up the wall to disappear over the now night-shadowed roof. \nAs the last tiny bit of tail disappeared from our property, three-year old Clay sighed and said it for all of us: 'Boy, that was one big snake!' \n", 'label': '3'}
{'text': "I was dirty, smelly, hungry and somewhere beneath all that, suntanned. It was the end Inter-Rail holiday. My body couldn't take any more punishment. My mind couldn't deal with any more foreign timetables, currencies or languages. \n'Never again,' I said, as I stepped onto home ground. I said exactly the same thing the following year. And the next. All I had to do was buy one train ticket and, because I was under twenty-five years old, I could spend a whole month going anywhere I wanted in Europe. Ordinary beds are never the same once you've learnt to sleep in the corridor of a train, the rhythm rocking you into a deep sleep.\nCarrying all your possessions on your back in a rucksack makes you have a very basic approach to travel, and encourages incredible wastefulness that can lead to burning socks that have become too [line 10: beginning] anti-social, and getting rid of books when finished. On the other hand, this way of looking at life line 10: end] is entirely in the spirit of Inter-Rail, for common sense and reasoning can be thrown out of the window along with the paperback book and the socks. All it takes to achieve this carefree attitude is one of those tickets in your hand. \nAny system that enables young people to travel through countries at a rate of more than one a day must be pretty special. On that first trip, my friends and I were at first unaware of the possibilities of this type of train ticket, thinking it was just an inexpensive way of getting to and from our chosen camp-site in southern France. But the idea of non-stop travel proved too tempting, for there was always just one more country over the border, always that little bit further to go. And what did the extra miles cost us? Nothing. \nWe were not completely uninterested in culture. But this was a first holiday without parents, as it was for most other Inter-Railers, and in organising our own timetable we left out everything except the most immediately available sights. This was the chance to escape the guided tour, an opportunity to do something different. I took great pride in the fact that, in many places, all I could be bothered to see was the view from the station. We were just there to get by, and to have a good time doing so. In this we were no different from most of the other Inter-Railers with whom we shared corridor floors, food and water, money and music. \nThe excitement of travel comes from the sudden reality of somewhere that was previously just a name. It is as if the city in which you arrive never actually existed until the train pulls in at the [line 29: beginning] station and you are able to see it with your own tired eyes for the first time. [line 29: end]\nOnly by actually seeing Europe, by watching the changing landscapes and seeing the differences in attitudes and lifestyles, can you really have an accurate picture of the continent in your mind. Everybody knows what is there, but it is meaningless until you view it yourself. This is what makes other people's holiday photos so boring. \nWhile the train trip won't allow you to discover anything new in the world sense, it is a valuable personal experience. Europe is a big place, and Inter-Rail gives people the best opportunity to recognise this ... though in our case it didn't happen immediately. ", 'label': '3'}
{'text': "Going up the wall\n\nOnce climbers went to the mountains. Now a challenging climb can be had anywhere, indoors or out. \n\nThe crowd holds its breath. High above them on the climbing wall, hanging upside down by the tips of two fingers, is the French climber Francois Lombard. He is competing in the World Cup Climbing Championships at Birmingham's National Indoor Arena. \nThe National Indoor Arena is more famous for staging the TV show Gladiators, but the television programme and the World Cup Climbing Championships share at least one feature - The Wall. And the fact that either event is possible is the result of a new and rapidly developing technology. \nUntil the mid-1960s,climbers practised their skills on cliffs in areas where there was a plentiful supply of good climbing angles. During the winter they would either tolerate the cold weather, go walking instead or climb on snow and ice in Scotland. \nHowever, as the sport developed it was increasingly important for top climbers to keep fit. With the cliffs unusable for much of the year, they used brick-edges or stone buildings to 'work out' on. This allowed them to keep their fingers strong, and beat off the boredom of not being able to climb. It wasn't long before many sports centres started building walls specifically for the task, using bricks with special edges to cling on to.\nMany of these early walls followed the example set by Don Robinson, a teacher of physical education who, during the mid-1960s,constructed a climbing wall in a corridor of his department at Leeds University. Robinson developed the idea of setting natural rock in a block of concrete, which could then be included in a wall. \nScores of climbing walls of this kind were built in sports halls up and down the country throughout the 1970s but they had obvious design problems. Walls could only be built in a vertical plane, whereas cliffs outside have features like overhangs and angled slabs of rock. There was the added drawback that once the walls were up they couldn't be altered and climbers would eventually tire of their repetitive nature, despite thinking of every combination of holds possible. \nIn 1985,a Frenchman, Francois Savigny, developed a material which he moulded into shapes like those that climbers would find on the cliffs. These could be fixed onto any existing wall and then taken off when climbers got bored with a particular combination. \nFrench manufacturers also began to experiment with panels on a steel framework. Concrete had proved too heavy to create overhanging walls without major building work, but steel frames could be erected anywhere as free-standing structures. A system of interchangeable fixtures gave climbers an endless supply of new holds. ", 'label': '3'}
{'text': "There is nothing more disappointing than arriving at an airport overseas to discover that your baggage has been left behind. At best you will have to put up with wearing the clothes you stand up in for hours or days, until the airline reunites you with your luggage. At worst, you may be in a different climate zone, thousands of miles from home and forced to wear wholly unsuitable clothes.\nAlthough airlines rarely reveal how many cases they lose, it is a fact of life that sooner or later regular travellers will be parted from their luggage. Even the best airlines slip up from time to time, and it is impossible for any carrier to guarantee that a passenger's checked luggage will go on the same flight, particularly when a journey calls for one or more changes of aircraft. \nThe system works like this. Airlines insist on exaggerated check-in times (which require passengers to report to the airport at a given time before departure) designed to allow sufficient time for baggage to pass through the airport and be loaded on to the plane. Minimum connecting times (MCTs) are the shortest time it takes to transfer between two flights. These, too, are exaggerated to allow for baggage transfers. \nIn normal circumstances the system works well. But extra security checks at airports and problems with air traffic combine to cause delayed flights. All this can cause the baggage system to fail. Then there is the possibility of human error, or an accident in which the destination label is torn off. \nThese problems can become severe at large transfer airports, known as 'hubs', because of the large number of bags that are processed. Last year, for example, London's Heathrow airport handled more than 41 million passengers, of whom nine million were changing planes. British Airways alone handled two million transfer passengers at Heathrow, with most making the one-mile transfer between Terminal 1 (for Domestic and European \nflights) and Terminal 4 (for long-distance flights). \nEven efficient transfer airports, such as Amsterdam, Copenhagen, Singapore and Zurich have their bad days. The risk of baggage being lost when changing planes is higher than average at certain airports. Even the United States has problems - Miami airport is well known for luggage going missing when transatlantic passengers make immediate connections for destinations in Latin America. \nYou should choose direct flights whenever possible and check in well before the official time. If a change of plane is unavoidable, or makes your flight less expensive, then try to fly the same airline throughout. Try to allow more connecting time by taking an earlier flight to the transfer airport, and make sure you label your luggage inside and out with your home and holiday addresses. Don't forget to include the flight numbers. \nIf, after all this, your luggage still goes missing, you must contact the appropriate airline official in the baggage hall and complete a property irregularity report (PIR). This must be done before leaving the airport. \n", 'label': '3'}
{'text': "Drop me a line! \n\nIn our fast world of phones, fax machines and computers, the old-fashioned art of letter writing is at risk of disappearing altogether. Yet, to me, there is something about receiving a letter that cannot be matched by any other form of communication. There is the excitement of its arrival, the pleasure of seeing who it is from and, finally, the enjoyment of the contents. \nLetter writing has been part of my life for as long as I can remember. It probably began with the little notes I would write to my mother. My mother, also, always insisted I write my own thank-you letters for Christmas and birthday presents. It didn't matter how short or untidy they were as long as they were letters. \nWhen I left home at 18 to train as a doctor in London, I would write once a \nweek, and so would my mother. Occasionally my father would write and it was always a joy to receive his long, amusing letters. Most of the letters from home contained just everyday events concerning my parents and their friends. Of course, we also made phone calls but it is the letters I remember most. \nThere were also letters from my boyfriends. In my youth I seemed to attract people who had to work or study away at some time and I was only able to stay in touch by correspondence. But instead of harming the relationships, letter writing seemed to improve them. I found that I could often express myself more easily in writing than by talking.\nI love the letters that come with birthday or Christmas cards. Notes are appreciated, but how much better to have a year's supply of news! And it's better still when it's an airmail envelope with beautiful stamps. My overseas letters arrive from Mangala in Sri Lanka, from someone I trained with over 20 years ago, and I have a penfriend in Australia and another in Vancouver. \nThen there's the lady who writes to me from France. If we hadn't started talking in a restaurant on the way home from holiday, if my husband hadn't taken her photo and if I hadn't asked her for her address, I would never have been able to write to her. More important, if she hadn't replied, we would be the poorer for it. As it is, we now have a regular correspondence. I can improve my French (she speaks no English); we have stayed at her home twice and she has stayed with us. \nMy biggest letter-writing success, however, came this summer, when my family and I stayed with my American penfriend in Texas. We had been corresponding for 29 years but had never met. Everyone was amazed that a correspondence could last so long. The local press even considered the correspondence worth reporting on the front page. \nI am pleased that my children are carrying on the tradition. Like my mother before me, I insist they write their own thank-you letters. My daughter writes me little letters, just as I did to my mother. She and my son have penfriends of their own in Texas, organised by my penfriend. I strongly urge readers not to allow letter writing to become another \n'lost art'. ", 'label': '3'}
{'text': "Keeping the holiday-makers happy\n\nA chalet girl's work is never done, Sarah Sutherland-Pilch tells Veronica Lee - in between making beds and delicious dinners. \n\nThis is the second year as a chalet girl for Sarah Sutherland-Pilch, a 24-year-old from West Sussex. Known by her nickname, Pilch, Sarah works for a company in Val d'Isere, France, cooking and cleaning for visitors who come to ski and stay in the wooden houses, known as chalets, that are characteristic of the area. Sarah graduated in French and History of Art from Oxford Brookes University last summer. \nBeing a chalet girl isn't a career, she says, but an enjoyable way to spend a year or two before settling down. 'It's a good way to make contacts. I meet successful people every week.' \nSarah does not 'live in'. She gets up at 7a.m. to walk the mile or so to the chalet, which sleeps up to 18 guests each week. She has her own breakfast before preparing that of the guests. 'They get the works - porridge, eggs, cereals, fruit and croissants.' When the last of the guests has had breakfast, by about 9.30 a.m., Sarah clears up and either makes the afternoon tea, which is left for the guests to help themselves, or cleans the rooms - 'the worst part of the job,' she says. \nBy about 11 a.m. she is ready to go on the slopes herself. She skis as much as possible. 'On a good day we can be up there until 4.30 p.m.' Sarah returns to the chalet in time to prepare dinner and takes a shower before doing so, but does not sleep. 'It's fatal if you do,' she says. \nDinner, a three-course affair, is served at 8 p.m. and coffee is usually on the table by 10 p.m. Sarah clears away the dinner things and fills the dishwasher. 'There's nothing worse than coming in to a messy kitchen the next morning.' Sometimes she will stay and chat with the guests, other times they are content to be left alone. 'Good guests can make a week brilliant - breakfast this morning was great fun - but some weeks, for whatever reason, don't go quite so well.' \nSarah meets her friends in the chalet where she lives - and they go out at about 11 p.m. 'We usually start off in Bananas, might go to G Jay's and perhaps Dick's T-Bar at the end of the evening,' she says. But Sarah never stays out too late on Saturday night as Sunday is her busiest time of the week. 'A frightful day,' she says, 'when you certainly don't want to be cooking breakfast with a terrible headache.' \nWork begins earlier than usual on Sunday, since breakfast for guests who are leaving has to be on the table by 7 a.m. As soon as the guests are gone, Sarah starts cleaning madly. 'We just blitz the place - clear the breakfast, strip the beds, get everything ready.' If she hasn't already done the week's shop on Saturday, Sarah does it now. \nAt around 3 p.m., the cleaning work done, Sarah then prepares tea for the new guests. 'They get here at around 4.30 p.m.' Sometimes they are disorientated and full of questions. I'm sure it's the mountain air that does something to them.' \nBetween tea and dinner, Sarah takes any guests needing boots or skis down to the ski shop and then gets a lift back to the chalet from one of the ski shop staff. It is soon time for dinner duty again and perhaps a drink later, but not always. 'Sometimes I'm so tired I just have an early night,' she says. ", 'label': '3'}
{'text': "The Collectors \n\nAmanda Roy writes about the things she collects and the reasons why so many people enjoy the same hobby.\n \nI have always loved collecting and collectors and one in three adults indulges in this hobby. It is a world of passion, envy and enthusiasm and delight. However, if you enter this world, remember one thing: in the end, if you do not fall in love with an object, do not collect it. \nSince the beginning of time, people have had the urge to collect. When primitive man collected pebbles, he hung them around his neck. Attracted by their shapes and colour, these pebbles represented man's first attempts to gather objects for intellectual and spiritual reasons. Over the intervening centuries, nothing much has changed. Small boys and girls still collect stones and seashells just for the beauty of their forms and colours. \nI have been collecting all my life. Everything from flowers such as tulips to pottery and paintings. My first collection was of stones picked up in my parents' garden. Aged six I had the good fortune, although it did not seem so at the time, to be sent to a school in a remote part of England, a cold and windy place surrounded by hills. When my parents came to visit me they used to take me to the local museum, which was full of objects collected by people in the past. I was fascinated by these objects. \nSurprisingly I am not alone in being interested in collecting objects. One in three adults indulges the same passion. The reasons why people collect has become a subject of great interest. The current thinking is that, for some individuals, it is the only aspect of their lives where they have complete control. For me, it's just something I enjoy doing.\nOne famous collector was the Duc de Berry in France. He owned a 'room of wonders'. This was a collection of natural and artificial curiosities. There were cups made from coconut shells, carved ivory beads and pieces of Oriental china. Another aristocrat, Catherine the Great of Russia, collected more than 4,000 paintings.\nHowever, you do not have to be rich and powerful to start a collection. I have collected items as different as tulip bulbs and china cups, searching out examples of each type with incredible determination. I remember the day that I persuaded a fellow collector of tulips to part with one which I wanted to add to my collection. I planted it and watered it until one year it vanished - stolen by another collector. \nOne collection that I made was of American rag dolls - 350 of them. I looked all over the USA for these dolls, searching out each variation in design with delight. This collection was destroyed when my house caught fire. Next morning, I stood inside the front hall and saw the remains of furniture and my collection. I am not certain which saddened me more!\nIt is, I suppose, the way that collections change hands that has always interested me. A silver spoon that once belonged to a king, a poet: it is this that gives value to the goods that are traded in the markets of the world. As small objects become a popular collector's item, so they begin to rise in price. The toys of the 1950s are now positively an investment, provided of course, that you did not throw away the original boxes. (Not only did I put them in the bin, I also did the same to the contents.) ", 'label': '3'}
{'text': 'Where I get my energy\n\nEmma Marsden asked six women who live life to the full to tell us how they do it. \n\nA. Jeanette Kupfermann\n\nJournalist and author: \'I think it\'s excitement. I\'ve got to be doing something that\'s a challenge. If I\'m absorbing something new and learning, I get tremendous energy. Anything to do with rhythm gives me energy, too - at the moment I\'m learning flamenco dancing. Dance is wonderful, very expressive and energising. I think you can feel drained if you\'re bored, maybe feeling life is pointless. Being effective in the world - even in a small way - gives you energy.\' \n\nB. Linda Kelsey\n\nMagazine editor: \'I have so much work to do but I enjoy it all - I love being at work, it isn\'t a chore. If you enjoy something, it doesn\'t make you feel low even though you may be feeling tired. I need a fair bit of sleep so when I do get it I feel really good. When I\'m \nrunning at six hours\' sleep a night, I feel a bit wet. I know exercise gives me energy, but it\'s finding the energy to do it! I do a yoga class once a week before work and I try to do a workout tape at home. But if I\'ve done exercise, my spirits rise amazingly. I get very low patches in the office between 3 and 5 in the afternoon and think it\'s probably good to eat something then.\' \n\nC. Annie Nightingale\n\nDisc jockey: \'I don\'t eat healthily to get my energy - I think it\'s natural enthusiasm and being positive. I really can\'t stand people with negative attitudes. I\'m quite naive - I think we should all enjoy our lives, grab the moment. Enjoyment comes first. You\'ve got to achieve things and set yourself various goals. I enjoy what I do and the last two years have been very exciting. In my line of business there are lots of lively young people and you can\'t help being affected by that. I love tearing around the place on jobs, having a mad life. I\'m very sociable. I enjoy taking photographs but I\'m not sure if I\'m good at it. I rush to get them processed and can\'t wait to get them back. \nI\'ve also started writing words for imaginary songs - it\'s just for fun and it\'s a good release for my mind when I\'m doing a lot of travelling.\' \n\nD. Floella Benjamin\n\nAuthor and children\'s TV presenter: \'My energy comes from things I do and enjoy. I believe in what I\'m doing, both at work and at home with my family and I think that being positive about life helps. That\'s why I love working with kids, they give out so much and have an inbuilt resilience. Energy is like a natural chemical, triggered off by communicating with others - just try smiling at people and feel the thrill you get when they smile back. It\'s far better than feeling sorry for yourself. Although I try to eat healthily and don\'t smoke or drink, I don\'t have an exercise plan. The most energetic I get is running around with the kids and playing with them.\' \n\nE. Deborah Moggach\n\nAuthor and playwright: \'What I love doing more than anything in the world is making a garden out of complete wasteland. I did that once. The garden was solid concrete - I smashed up all the concrete and dug in loads of soil. It was far better than any amount of workouts or tennis. The other thing that gives me energy is knowing that somebody wants to read what I\'m writing - I find it difficult to write in a void. And I like sneaking into a farmer\'s land or a wood. If I\'m found, I say "Oh, what a wonderful wood, I didn\'t know it was private property," and so on. I like it because it\'s childlike.\' \n\nF. Katherine Monblot\n\nTherapist: \'I believe you must have an interest in and respect for what you do in life. I like to take risks and I get bored quickly, which keeps me motivated. Doing things you don\'t want to do wears you out. I used to be a member of various committees and resented the demands they made on my time. You only have a certain amount of energy, so direct it into the things that are most important to you.\' \n\n', 'label': '3'}
{'text': "Looking after the countryside \n\nTHE NATIONAL TRUST \n\nThe National Trust is an organisation whose aim is to conserve the British countryside. Gill Page visits the Lleyn Peninsula in North Wales and talks to one of the wardens employed by the Trust to look after the beautiful areas it owns. \n\nCommon sense. That's what a National Trust Warden needs, according to Gareth Roberts. 'And you definitely need to be good at handling people, because you're continually dealing with farmers, visitors, conservationists and building firms.' \nGareth was born and bred on the Lleyn Peninsula and worked on his parents' farm until he married. About 80 people applied for the post as National Trust Warden for the Lleyn Peninsula. In the end, Gareth's local knowledge and farming experience won him the job, despite his lack of formal training. \n'I find it particularly helpful that I still farm with my parents and that I can deal with farmers on the same level and be aware of their problems. Also, they can't take me in about anything!' he says. His farming life also means he is well able to cope with the physical demands of the job - erecting fences, planting trees, building walls. \nSince he has been with the Trust, Gareth says he has come to understand more about nature conservation. 'When I was a youngster,' he recalls, 'I used to pick and press flowers, collect butterfly larvae and old birds' nests. And I thought to myself recently, where would I find all those flowers, the birds' nests, the grasshoppers now? It's really become clear to me that farming has affected the countryside. It's not the farmers' fault - they were just doing what the government told them.' \nGareth says that, when he started his job, farmers and conservationists were set against each other. Both sides wanted things done their way.Now they are talking and can see each other's point of view. 'We're at the crossroads and there's just a small step needed to join them together,' says Gareth. \nConservation is one of the main aspects of Gareth's work, along with public entry to the Trust's land, tree planting and maintenance, and meeting the Trust's tenant farmers. 'My role is to make sure jobs get finished, with as little fuss and as economically as possible. What I enjoy most is seeing projects completed, although about half my time is spent on reports, signing bills and so on.' \nGareth is certainly keen on his job and despite never being off duty, he obviously enjoys every minute of his work, especially talking to the public. Most of them, anyway. 'It's the attitude of some people I dislike,' he admits. 'They just walk into the area, demand everything, then walk out again as if it's their absolute right. Having to be nice to those people gets on my nerves!' \nBut as Gareth says, it's all down to common sense really.So if you've got plenty of that, and you like the idea of an outdoor job, you might think of applying to become a warden like Gareth - but don't expect a job to be available on the Lleyn Peninsula for a good many years! ", 'label': '3'}
{'text': 'No Title \n\nOn the very last day of a bad year, I was leaning against a pillar in the Baltimore railway station, waiting to catch the 10.10 to Philadelphia. There were a lot more people waiting than I had expected. That airy, light, clean, polished feeling I generally got in the station had been lost. Elderly couples with matching luggage stuffed the benches, and swarms of college kids littered the floor with their bags.\nA grey-haired man was walking around speaking to different strangers one by one. Well-off, you could tell: tanned skin, nice sweater, soft, beige car-coat. He went up to a woman sitting alone and asked her a question. Then he came over to a girl standing near me. She had long blond hair, and I had been thinking I wouldn\'t mind talking to her myself. The man said, \'Would you by any chance be travelling to Philadelphia?\'\n\'Well, northbound, yes,\' she said. \'But to Philadelphia?\'\n\'No, New York, but I\'ll be ...\'\n\'Thanks, anyway,\' he said, and he moved toward the next bench.\nNow he had my full attention. \'Ma\'am,\' I heard him ask an old lady, \'are you travelling to\nPhiladelphia?\' When the woman told him, \'Wilmington,\' he didn\'t say a thing, just marched on down the row to one of the matched-luggage couples. I straightened up from my pillar and drifted closer, looking toward the platform as if I had my mind on the train.\nWell, I was going to Philadelphia. He could have asked me. I understood why he didn\'t, of course.\nNo doubt, I struck him as unreliable. He just glanced quickly at me and then swerved off toward the bench at the other end of the waiting area. By now he was looking seriously stressed. \'Please!\' he said to a woman reading a book. \'Tell me you\'re going to Philadelphia!\'\nShe lowered her book. She was thirtyish, maybe thirty-five - older than I was, anyhow. A school- teacher sort. \'Philadelphia?\' she said. \'Why, yes, I am.\'\n\'Then could I ask you a favour?\'\nI stopped several feet away and frowned down at my left wrist. (Never mind that I don\'t own a watch.) Even without looking, I could sense how she went on guard. The man must have sensed it too, because he said, \'Nothing too difficult, I promise!\'\nThey were announcing my train now. People started moving toward Gate E, the older couples hauling their wheeled bags behind them like big pets on leashes. Next I heard the man talking. \'My daughter\'s flying out this afternoon for a study year abroad, leaving from Philadelphia. So I put her on a train this morning, stopping for groceries afterward, and came home to find my wife in a state. She hardly said "hello" to me. You see my daughter\'d forgotten her passport. She\'d telephoned home from the station in Philadelphia; didn\'t know what to do next.\'\nThe woman clucked sympathetically. I\'d have kept quiet myself. Waited to find out where he was heading with this.\n\'So I told her to stay put. Stay right there in the station, I said, and I would get somebody here to carry up her passport.\'\nA likely story! Why didn\'t he go himself, if this was such an emergency?\n\'Why don\'t you go yourself?\' the woman asked him.\n\'I can\'t leave my wife alone for that long. She\'s in a wheelchair.\'\nThis seemed like a pretty poor excuse, if you want my honest opinion. Also, it exceeded the amount of bad luck that one family could expect. I let my eyes wander toward the two of them. The man was holding a packet, not a plain envelope, which would have been the logical choice, but one of those padded envelopes the size of a paperback book. Aha! Padded! So you couldn\'t feel the contents! And from where I stood, it looked to be stapled shut besides. Watch yourself, lady, I said silently.', 'label': '3'}
{'text': "Fun at the Dentist's?\n\nIf you walk into W. Lloyd Jerome's dental surgery in the centre of Glasgow, you'll see bright modern paintings on the wall and a fashionable blue couch which patients sit on while he checks their teeth. Jerome says, 'Fifty per cent of the population only go to the dentist when they're in pain rather than attending for regular check- ups. That's because they're frightened.'\nTo counteract this, he has tried to create an environment where people are not afraid. \nThat's why I took the decision not to wear a white coat. I find that's one of the things that people associate with pain. In fact, my philosophy is that dental treatment should take place in an atmosphere of relaxation, interest and above all enjoyment.'\nWhich is all highly shocking for anyone (most of us in fact) who has learnt to associate dental treatment with pain, or at the very least, with formal, clinical visits. Jerome says, 'If people are relaxed, entertained and correctly treated, they will forget such previous negative experiences.'.\nVirtual-reality headsets are one of his new relaxation techniques. 'We were the first practice in Britain to introduce them and they're proving very popular. The headsets are used for the initial check-up, where the patient sits comfortably on the blue couch and watches a film about underwater wildlife while I look at their teeth. Then the headset switches to a special camera, to give the patient a visual tour around their mouth.' Surprisingly, most patients seem to enjoy this part of their visit to the dentists.\nAnother key point is that the surgery smells more like a perfume shop than a dentist's. Today there is the smell of orange. Jerome explains, 'When people walk in, I want them to realise with all their senses that it's not like going to the dentist's. Smell is very important. That dental smell of surgical spirit can get the heart racing in minutes if you're frightened of dentists.' I certainly found the delicate smell in the surgery very pleasant.\nAlthough he is known as Glasgow's most fashionable dentist,Jerome is keen to point out that he takes his work very seriously. The relaxation techniques are important but the quality of the treatment is of course the most important thing.\nFor example, Jerome uses a special instrument which sprays warm water on the teeth to clean them, rather than scraping them. It feels a bit strange at first, but as long as people are relaxed, it's not painful at all.\nFive years ago, Jerome went to the United States to do research into dental techniques. 'One of the things I found out there was that when you make it easier for the patient you make it easier for yourself', he explains. He sees his patient-centred attitude as the start of a gradual movement towards less formality in the conservative British dentistry profession.\nAt that moment, a patient arrives. Jerome rushes over, offers him a cup of tea (herbal or regular), asks him what video he'd like to watch and leads him gently towards the chair. The patient seems to be enjoying this five-star treatment and no wonder. The surgery seems more like an elegant beauty parlour than a mainstream dental practice.", 'label': '3'}
{'text': "Food for all\n\nWe proudly present our own hand-picked special selection of the very best cookbook titles now on offer. \n\nA.\nAsk anyone to think of a famous TV cook and writer, and it's frequently Delia Smith's name that comes to mind. Her recipes come from all over the world each marked by her enthusiasm for exciting food, plus her straightforward appreciation of what the average cook can do in the average kitchen. The book that established her reputation is Delia Smith's Complete Cookery Course, which has now become the kitchen reference book for the modern cook. Along with simple, but expert, guidance on all aspects of basic and more advanced cookery, Delia mixes her advice with hundreds of superb recipes that are anything but boring. Recently revised, it's more than ever the book that answers the question: 'If I could only have one cookbook, which would it be?' \n\nB.\nIt took Raymond Blanc just 15 years to move from amateur, untrained chef to chef/owner of the most famous French restaurant in Britain. Now, to accompany his first TV series, Blanc Mange, comes the book of the same name. Raymond wants to teach us all to be better cooks by demonstrating how and why certain ingredients react in certain ways. Good cooking is easy, in his view, when you really understand what's going on in the pan. Over 80 amazing recipes demonstrate exactly what he means. It's a very practical reference book, which is not above explaining why certain dishes can go wrong and introducing some basic food chemistry to clarify the points made. Monsieur Blanc loves to cook to entertain and, as this book proves, he's very, very good at it. \n\nC.\nLe Cordon Bleu, three words which make you think of all that is best in classical French cooking. Over the past 100 years, the expert chefs of this most famous cooking school have trained all levels of students to achieve perfection. Now, to celebrate the school's impressive hundredth anniversary, comes this equally impressive new book, Le Cordon Bleu Classic French Cookbook, which contains 100 of the school's most respected recipes. Although the recipes in the book are all classics, they're all still remarkably fresh. While Le Cordon Bleu has always carried the flag for traditional French cooking, it has also moved away from rich, creamy sauces and altered its approach to cut down on the killer calories. Starting with a chapter on the basics of sound kitchen procedure, the book follows it up with Appetisers and Starters, Main dishes and, finally, Desserts. Throughout, the recipes are illustrated with step-by-step illustrations plus wonderful shots of the finished dishes. Expert chefs from Cordon Bleu schools around the world have each selected a recipe for which they are \nfamous, and shared their secrets with the reader. \n\nD.\nFast food? Oh yuk! Surely it's accepted wisdom that good food means a long period of suffering in front of the cooker? Well, Nigel Slater, food editor of The Observer, doesn't think so as his new book, The 30-Minute Cook, will prove. Fast food, as Nigel says, 'is just what the world wants when it comes home tired and hungry and demanding something good to eat at once.' He's always believed it's perfectly possible to create something tasty in the time it takes to deliver a pizza, and he has already written two very successful books to prove it. In this great new book you'll find more enticing recipes, and each hits the table just 30 minutes after the word 'go'. Nigel has written down, in his jolly and enjoyable style, more than 200 recipes from around the world. Just because he likes his food fast, it doesn't mean this bright young writer doesn't appreciate good food. If you don't believe fast food can be great food, try his recipes: they're simply delicious. ", 'label': '3'}
{'text': "Bitter water hits the big time\n\nChocolate, which has its origins in South America, is now part of a multi-million pound worldwide business. \n\nAt Easter, British people spend over PS230 million on chocolate. A massive eight per cent of all chocolate is bought at this time. \nOnly at Christmas do people eat more of the cocoa-based foodstuffs. Although the large-scale industrial production of chocolate began in the last century, the cacao plant was first cultivated by the Aztec, Toltec and Mayan civilisations of Central America over three thousand years ago. \nThe cacao tree is an evergreen, tropical plant which is found in Africa, South and Central America, the West Indies and South-East Asia. The fruit of this tree is melon-sized and contains 20-40 seeds. When dried they become cacao beans, which can be used to make chocolate. In English-speaking countries, they are often called cocoa beans. This is a misspelling from the 17th century when they were also called cacoa and cocao beans. \nThe Aztecs used cocoa beans as money. They also used them to make a drink called xocoatl. This is from the word in the Aztec language, Nahuatl, meaning 'bitter water'. In Aztec times the chocolate drink was flavoured with spices and used on ceremonial occasions and for welcoming visitors. The Spanish found the drink more palatable mixed with cinnamon and sugar, but the recipe did not spread to the rest of Europe for another century. In the late 17th century, chocolate houses were set up in Europe's capital cities, where people gathered to drink chocolate. \nUntil the last century, the chocolate drink was made from solid blocks of chocolate which had to be melted down in hot water. But in 1826, CJ van Houten of the Netherlands invented chocolate powder. This was made by extracting most of the cocoa butter from the crushed beans. \nThe age of the chocolate bar as we know it began in 1847 when a Bristol company, Fry and Sons, combined cocoa butter with pure chocolate liquor and sugar to produce a solid block that you could eat. A Swiss company then introduced milk solids to the process which gave us milk chocolate. \nAt the turn of the century, the British chocolate market was dominated by French companies. In 1879 the English company Cadbury even named their Birmingham factory Bournville (ville is the French word for town) in the hope that a little French glamour would rub off. But then came Cadbury's famous Dairy Milk bar which began life as Dairymaid in 1905. Clever advertising which associated it with the healthy qualities of milk from the English countryside quickly established the bar as a rival to the more decadent French brands. \nIt seems that, for the time being at least, chocolate intake in Britain has stabilised at about four bars each week. This has forced manufacturers to look for new ways to attract customers.\nThe latest marketing trick is the so-called 'extended line'. This is when the humble chocolate bar becomes an ice cream, a soft drink or a dessert, to tempt chocoholics who have grown tired of conventional snacks. \nAt the other end of the production process, cacao farmers are still feeling the effects of a crash in cocoa bean prices at the end of the 1980s. As most cacao farmers operate on a very small scale, many were forced out of business. Perhaps you could spare a thought for them as you munch your next chocolate bars. ", 'label': '3'}
{'text': 'An eye for detail\n\nArtist Susan Shepherd is best known for her flower paintings, and the large garden that surrounds her house is the source of many of her subjects. It is full of her favourite flowers, most especially varieties of tulips and poppies. Some of the plants are unruly and seed themselves all over the garden. There is a harmony of colour, shape and structure in the two long flower borders that line the paved path which crosses the garden from east to west. Much of this is due to the previous owners who were keen gardeners, and who left plants that appealed to Susan. She also inherited the gardener, Danny. \'In fact, it was really his garden,\' she says. \'We got on very well. At first he would say, "Oh, it\'s not worth it" to some of the things I wanted to put in, but when I said I wanted to paint them, he recognised what I had in mind.\'\nSusan prefers to focus on detailed studies of individual plants rather than on the garden as a whole, though she will occasionally paint a group of plants where they are. More usually, she picks them and then takes them up to her studio. \'I don\'t set the whole thing up at once,\' she says. \'I take one flower out and paint it, which might take a few days, and then I bring in another one and build up the painting that way. Sometimes it takes a couple of years to finish.\'\nHer busiest time of year is spring and early summer, when the tulips are out, followed by the poppies. \'They all come out together, and you\'re so busy,\' she says. But the gradual decaying process is also part of the fascination for her. With tulips, for example, \'you bring them in and put them in water, then leave them for perhaps a day and they each form themselves into different shapes. They open out and are fantastic. When you first put them in a vase, you think they are boring, but they change all the time with twists and turns.\'\nSusan has always been interested in plants: \'I did botany at school and used to collect wild flowers from all around the countryside,\' she says. \'I wasn\'t particularly interested in gardening then; in fact, I didn\'t like garden flowers, I thought they looked like the ones made of silk or plastic that were sold in some florists\' shops - to me, the only real ones were wild. I was intrigued by the way they managed to flower in really awkward places, like cracks in rocks or on cliff tops.\' Nowadays, the garden owes much to plants that originated in far-off lands, though they seem as much at home in her garden as they did in China or the Himalayas. She has a come-what-may attitude to the garden, rather like an affectionate aunt who is quite happy for children to run about undisciplined as long as they don\'t do any serious damage.\nWith two forthcoming exhibitions to prepare for, and a ready supply of subject material at her back door, finding time to work in the garden has been difficult recently. She now employs an extra gardener but, despite the need to paint, she knows that, to maintain her connection with her subject matter, \'you have to get your hands dirty\'.', 'label': '3'}
{'text': 'The Schoolgirl Model\n\nWhen 15-year-old Kira Langer is not flying off to wonderful locations and appearing on the covers of magazines, you\'ll probably find her revising for her school exams. Jane Laidlaw finds out more. \n\n\'I\'m afraid Kira will be a little late,\' the receptionist at the agency told me. \'Oh, fine,\' I said, \'no problem.\' I had been trying to convince myself that all the bad things I had read about models were rubbish, but the words difficult, vain and unintelligent kept coming into my head. And now she was going to be late. How late? An hour? Three hours? Maybe she wouldn\'t come at all. What if she had decided a visit to the hairdresser\'s would be more fun than talking to me? If she was late, she would be rushing. She could be in an awful mood and refuse to answer my questions. \nBut when the winner of the Looks magazine supermodel competition walked in, she was smiling, relaxed and apologetic and with her mother. Kira was not dressed in expensive-looking designer clothes but in a simple black dress and trainers. There was no sign of a selfish attitude, she was just a very friendly, very tall, very pretty girl. All models under the age of 16 must take an adult with them whenever they work, she explained, and apart from looking incredibly young, her mother was a normal mum - visibly proud of her successful daughter. \nKira gives the impression of being slightly puzzled by her new-found fame, which is understandable since it was completely unplanned. It was her older sister who decided that she should take part in the model competition. \'She saw the competition and said I should go in for it,\' Kira remembers. \'I said no, but she sent some photos in anyway.\' When the call came to tell her that she was a finalist, she was at school. \nThe achievement of being selected for the final [line 38: beginning] gave Kira the confidence to go through with it and [line 38: end] she performed perfectly. She won easily and the Select model agency in London immediately offered her work. \nKira now finds that one of the hardest things she has to do is to manage her two separate lives. But her friends and teachers have become accustomed to having a star among them. \'They\'re really proud of me,\' she says. However, a few unkind people at her school are rude about her success. \'They say I have too high an opinion of myself.\' This kind of remark must be hard for Kira to deal with, since there can\'t be many people as successful as her who are less self-important. But she says, \'They assume that because I\'ve suddenly become a model, I can\'t stay the same. But the only thing that\'s changed is I\'ve become more confident - not in a horrible way, but I\'m able to stand up for myself more.\' \nAs a busy model though, her social life is obviously affected. The Select agency can ring at any time and tell her that she is wanted for a job the next day. \'If my friends are going out together, I can\'t say I\'ll come, because I don\'t know what I\'m doing the next day. I can\'t really make plans, and if I do they sometimes get broken, but my friends are good about it. They don\'t say, "Oh, you\'re always going off modelling now, you never have time for us".\' \nKira has the looks, ability and support to have a fabulous career ahead of her. And not many people can say that before they even sit their school-leaving exams. I am about to finish the interview with the girl who has it all, and I ask what she would like to do as a career if she didn\'t have the outstanding beauty that seems certain to take her to the top of the profession. She pauses and replies: \'I\'d like to do what you\'re doing.\' ', 'label': '3'}
{'text': "In search of true north - and the man behind Halley's comet \nDr Toby Clark, a researcher at the British Geological Survey, aims to retrace Sir Edmund Halley's quest to chart compass variations. Anjana Ahuja reports.\nAstronomer Sir Edmund Halley (1656-1742) is best known for the comet that bears his name. Yet one of his greatest accomplishments, in the eyes of his contemporaries, was to chart, using calculations made on his sea voyages on the warship Paramore, the 'variations of the compass'. These variations are now known as 'declination', that is, the angle between magnetic north and true geographical north. Without it, sailors were unable to correct their compasses. It was therefore impossible to deduce longitude precisely and navigate the oceans.\nSo it was that Halley, one of only two men in the land at that time paid to conduct scientific research, set sail for the Cape Verde Islands with the grand plan of charting declination in the North and South Atlantic. The trip was quickly aborted because of crew insubordination, but Halley returned to the seas a second time.\nThis voyage took him and his crew to Rio de Janeiro, down past South Georgia, up again to Newfoundland and back to England. From these travels Halley published, in 170I, a 'New and Correct Chart shewing the Variations of the Compasse in the Western and Southern Oceans'. More sophisticated successors to this primitive cartographic effort proved indispensable to seamen for more than a century, before a slow change in the terrestrial magnetic field rendered them inaccurate.\nIf all goes well, Halley's accomplishments will be celebrated once again. Dr Clark, himself a keen sailor, plans to commemorate the three-hundredth anniversary of Halley's trip by retracing the route of the Paramore.\nPS70,000 will have to be raised before he embarks, and Sir Vivian Fuchs, who led the first cross-Antarctica expedition, is providing support for his efforts to do this. Dr Clark became fascinated by Halley during a two-year posting to Halley Station in Antarctica, where he read biographies of the great scientist. \n'Halley led a remarkable life: Dr Clark says. 'He was not only a respected scientist but also led expeditions. He was not just an astronomer but also did research in geophysics. While he was Astronomer Royal, he mapped the positions of the stars, and also found time for other interests.'\nIt was during this period that Halley developed a diving bell and also advised Sir Isaac Newton during his writing of Principia Mathematica, the foundation of classical physics. Recreating the voyage, Dr Clark says, will afford Halley the recognition he deserves. The projected expedition, which he has entitled 'In the Wake of the Paramore', will also have scientific merit.\nIt will involve making the measurements that Halley made, but with far more precise instruments. These measurements need to be updated because the terrestrial magnetic field is slowly but constantly changing.\nThe data collected should help to refine the existing mathematical model of Earth's magnetic field, called the international geomagnetic reference field. 'It is common to measure the size but not the direction of the magnetic field. That's because you need to know true north to measure the direction,' says Dr Clark.\n'On our expedition we can use global positioning satellites to determine that.' The British Geological Survey and the United States Navy have offered to supply instruments. By chance, a Danish satellite will be taking similar measurements over the globe.\nDr Clark hopes that his measurements will plug any gaps in its coverage of the Atlantic Ocean and, he points out, it is also useful to have ground-based measurements as a comparison. It is easy to forget just how significant Halley's Atlantic journey really was. It was the first dedicated scientific expedition on the seas and Halley became the first civilian who was appointed naval captain to pursue what many regarded as an obsession with declination. Does Dr Clark possess the credentials to make his parallel voyage a success?\nAs well as spending two years in Antarctica and working in the geomagnetic group at the British Geological Survey, he has already sailed the 13,000 kilometres from Rio de Janeiro to England. He envisages that the expedition will be completed in four stages, with four different crews.\nAnd does he share Halley's obsessive trait? 'I am prepared to give up my life for eight months to do this, so I suppose some people might think I'm obsessed. But I wouldn't want to sail across the Atlantic again without a good reason. Halley, and his fascinating life, have given me a real sense of purpose.'\n", 'label': '4'}
{'text': "The Hotel Inspector\n\nSue Brown judges hotels for a living. Christopher Middleton watched her in action.\n\nOne minute into the annual inspection and things are already going wrong for the Globe Hotel. Not that they know it yet. The receptionist reciting room rates over the phone to a potential guest is still blissfully unaware of the identity of the real guest she is doggedly ignoring. 'Hasn't even acknowledged us,' Sue Brown says out of the corner of her mouth. 'Very poor.' It is a classic arrival-phase error, and one that Sue has encountered scores of times in her 11 years as an inspector. 'But this isn't an ordinary three-star place,' she protests. 'It has three red stars, and I would expect better.'\nTo be the possessor of red stars means that the Globe is rated among the top 130 of the 4,000 listed in the hotel guide published by the organisation she works for. However, even before our frosty welcome, a chill has entered the air. Access from the car park has been via an unmanned door, operated by an impersonal buzzer, followed by a long, twisting, deserted corridor leading to the hotel entrance. 'Again, not what I had expected,' says Sue.\nCould things get worse? They could. 'We seem to have no record of your booking,' announces the receptionist, in her best sing-song how-may-I-help-you voice.\nIt turns out that a dozen of the hotel's 15 rooms are unoccupied that night. One is on the top floor. It is not to the inspector's taste: stuffiness is one criticism, the other is a gaping panel at the back of the wardrobe, behind which is a large hole in the wall.\nWhen she began her inspecting career, she named an early reputation for toughness. 'The Woman in Black, I was known as,' she recalls, 'which was funny, because I never used to wear black. And I've never been too tough.' Not that you would know it the next morning when, after paying her bill, she suddenly reveals her identity to the Globe's general manager, Robin Greaves.\nFrom the look on his face, her arrival has caused terror.\nEven before she says anything else, he expresses abject apologies for the unpleasant smell in the main lounge. 'We think there's a blocks drain there,' he sighs. 'The whole floor will probably have to come up.` Sue gently suggests that as well as sorting out the plumbing, he might also prevail upon his staff not to usher guests into the room so readily. 'Best, perhaps, to steer them to the other lounge.' she says. Greaves nods with glum enthusiasm and gamely takes notes. He has been at the Globe for only five months, and you can see him struggling to believe Sue when she says that this dissection of the hotel can only be for the good of the place in the long run.\nNot that it's all on the negative side. Singled out for commendation are Emma, the assistant manager, and Trudy, the young waitress, who dished out a sheaf of notes about the building's 400-year history. Dinner, too, has done enough to maintain the hotel's two-rosette food rating, thereby encouraging Greaves to push his luck a bit. 'So what do we have to do to get three rosettes?' he enquires. Sue's suggestions include: 'Not serve a pudding that collapses.' The brief flicker of light in Greaves' eyes goes out.\nIt is Sue Brown's unenviable job to voice the complaints the rest of us more cowardly consumers do not have the courage to articulate. 'Sometimes one can be treading on very delicate ground. I remember, in one case, a woman rang to complain I'd got her son the sack. All I could say was the truth, which was that he'd served me apple pie with his fingers.' Comeback letters involve spurious allegations of everything, from a superior attitude to demanding bribes. 'You come to expect it after a while, but it hurts every time,' she says.\nSue is required not just to relate her findings to the hotelier verbally, but also to send them a full written report. They are, after all, paying for the privilege of her putting them straight. (There is an annual fee for inclusion in the guide.) Nevertheless, being singled out for red-star treatment makes it more than worthwhile. So it is reassuring for Greaves to hear that Sue is not going to recommend that the Globe be stripped of its red stars. That is the good news. The bad is that another inspector will be back in the course of the next two months to make sure that everything has been put right. 'Good,' smiles Greaves unconvincingly. 'We'll look forward to that.'", 'label': '4'}
{'text': "P. D. James\n\nBarbara Michaels meets the acclaimed crime writer, whose innocent exterior hides a complex and brilliant imagination.\n\nBest-selling crime writer P.D. James - the initials stand for Phyllis Dorothy - exudes an air of quiet authority. It is easy to envisage her, had she not become a creator of detective stories with more twists and turns than a spiral staircase, as a headmistress of a girls' school. But it is soon apparent from what she says that the authoritative mien is, in fact, a cloak for shyness. She reluctantly admits that Adam Dalgliesh, the detective in her novels, 'is, I suppose, modelled on myself - or rather, the way I would have turned out if I had been a man'. Dalgliesh prefers to unravel the complexities of crimes solo, as does his creator. 'I need time on my own, particularly when I am writing. I can write more or less anywhere as long as I have total privacy.'\nShe is too modest to concur with the view that she is Britain's best-known crime writer, even though her books - 12 major detective novels - are read avidly by millions all over the world. She herself is a great fan of the works of close friend Ruth Rendell. 'I particularly enjoy her psychological works, written under the name of Barbara Vine.' Books beside her bed are most likely to be by women writers such as Iris Murdoch, Anita Brookner and Penelope Lively, although not to the total exclusion of male authors like Graham Greene and Evelyn Waugh, whom she considers to have been the greatest novelists of their generation.\nSuccess came to P.D. James late in life. Now in her seventies, she was 42 when her first crime novel, Cover Her Face, was published. Born in Oxford, the eldest of three children, Phyllis grew up mainly in Cambridge, where her family moved when she was 11 years old. 'I met my husband there - he was a student at the university, and I have always loved the place. That is why I chose it as the setting for An Unsuitable Job For A Woman.'\nReluctantly, she reveals that from a promising start, life has been hard, even tragic at times. Her Irish doctor husband, Connor Bantry White, returned from the Second World War, during which he served with the Royal Army Medical\nCorps, a very sick man. 'I had to work long hours to support him and our two young daughters, Clare and Jane. The ideas were teeming in my head, but I could do practically nothing about it - I simply hadn't the time. My husband's parents, however, were marvellous, and took my daughters under their wing, giving them a sense of security throughout those difficult years.'\nWhile working full-time in administration for the National Health Service, she made good use of her enviable organisational skills. At one point, five psychiatric outpatients' clinics came under her jurisdiction. Then followed 11 years at the Home Office, first in the Police Department, doing administration for forensic science research, and then in the Criminal Law section, in the juvenile crime division. It was while working in forensic science that she became 'quite accustomed' to the sight of corpses. But it was not fascination with death itself that inspired her. 'It was, rather, the shape and construction involved in the writing of a crime novel that appealed. I have always enjoyed reading detective stories, and I always knew that I wanted to be a writer.'\n'I didn't want to use the traumatic events of my own life in a work of fiction. The writing of a detective story appealed as a wonderful apprenticeship for someone setting out to be a serious novelist, and it was suitably remove from my own experience. As I went on, I became increasingly aware that one could stay within the constraints and indeed within the so-called formula of the classic detective story and still write a good, serious and revealing novel about human beings. Writing detective stories', she says, 'is a way of bringing order out of disorder. The solution of a crime confirms the sanctity of life - even If that life ls unlovable. Nobody really likes violence.'", 'label': '4'}
{'text': "POWER DRESSING\n\nEVERY SUMMER, the peacocks that roam free within Whipsnade Wild Animal Park in Bedfordshire expose their magnificent trains to the critical and often disdainful gaze of the hens. They re-enact the mystery that tormented Charles Darwin to his dying day: how in this competitive world, where nature as Tennyson said - is red in tooth and claw, could birds have evolved such an obvious extravagance? How do they get away with it? The zoologist Marion Petrie and her colleagues of the Open University are now exploiting the quasi-wild conditions of Whipsnade to try, a century after Darwin's death, to settle the matter.\nDarwin argued that living creatures came to be the way they are by evolution, rather than by special creation, and that the principal mechanism of evolution was natural selection. That is, in a crowded and hence competitive world, the individuals best suited to the circumstances - the 'fittest' - are the most likely to survive and have offspring.\nBut the implication is that fittest would generally mean toughest, swiftest, cleverest, most alert. The peacocks tail, by contrast, was at best a waste of space and in practice a severe encumbrance, and Darwin felt obliged to invoke what he felt was a separate mechanism of evolution, which he called 'sexual selection'. The driving mechanism was simply that females liked -- in his words - 'beauty for beauty's sake'.\nBut Darwin's friend and collaborator, Alfred Russel Wallace, though in many ways more 'romantic' than Darwin, was in others even more Darwinian. 'Beauty for beauty's sake' he wanted nothing of. If peahens chose cocks with the showiest trains, he felt, then it must be that they knew what they were about. The cocks must have some other quality, which was not necessarily obvious to the human observer, but which the hens themselves could appreciate. According to Wallace, then, the train was not an end in itself, but an advertisement for some genuine contribution to survival.\nNow, 100 years later, the wrangle is still unresolved, for the natural behaviour of peafowl is much harder to study than might be imagined. But 200\nbirds at Whipsnade, which live like wild birds yet are used to human beings, offer unique opportunities for study. Marion Petrie and her colleagues at\nWhipsnade have identified two main questions. First, is the premise correct - do peahens really choose the males with the showiest trains? And, secondly, do the peacocks with the showiest trains have some extra, genuinely advantageous quality, as Wallace supposed, or is it really all show, as Darwin felt?\nIn practice, the mature cocks display in groups at a number of sites around Whipsnade, and the hens judge one against the other. Long observation from hides, backed up by photographs, suggests that the hens really do like the showiest males. What seems to count is the number of eye-spots on the train, which is related to its length; the cocks with the most eye-spots do indeed attract the most mates.\nBut whether the males with the best trains are also 'better' in other ways remains to be pinned down. William Hamilton of Oxford University has put forward the hypothesis that showy male birds in general, of whatever species, are the most parasite-free, and that their plumage advertises their disease-free state. There is evidence that this is so in other birds. But Dr Petrie and her colleagues have not been able to assess the internal parasites in the Whipsnade peacocks to test this hypothesis. This year, however, she is comparing the offspring of cocks that have in the past proved attractive to hens with the offspring of cocks that hens find unattractive. Do the children of the attractive cocks grow faster? Are they more healthy? If so, then the females' choice will be seen to be utilitarian after all, just as Wallace predicted. \nThere is a final twist to this continuing story. The great mathematician and biologist R A Fisher in the thirties proposed what has become known as 'Fisher's Runaway'. Just suppose, for example, that for whatever reason - perhaps for a sound 'Wallacian' reason a female first picks a male with a slightly better tail than the rest. The sons of that mating will inherit their father's tail, and the daughters will inherit their mother's predilection for long tails. This is how the runaway begins. Within each generation, the males with the longest tails will get most mates and leave most offspring, and the females predilection for long tails will increase commensurately. Modern computer models show that such a feedback mechanism would alone be enough to produce a peacocks tail. Oddly, too, this would vindicate Darwin's apparently fanciful notion - once the process gets going, the females would indeed be selecting 'beauty for beauty's sake'.", 'label': '4'}
{'text': 'Young Masters\n\nAge is against Bobby Fischer as he seeks again to re-establish himself. Chess is more than ever a young man\'s game.\n\nAfter 20 years of self-imposed exile, Mr Bobby Fischer has returned to chess and is playing his old adversary Boris Spassky. Mr Fischer\'s victory in the first game was a masterpiece, simple but profound. But, as subsequent games have shown, this balding, bearded chess player is not the man of 1972. He is 49 years old, out of practice and out of shape. Mr Spassky is even older.\nChess has also changed a lot over the past two decades. A new era of professionalism was born out of Mr Fischer\'s own popularisation of the game. The rise of the professional chess circuit has seen the competitive aspect of the game overtake the scientific and artistic. The sole aim of the modern master is to win.\nIn international chess, a player\'s nerves and stamina are as crucial as his intellect and wisdom. The pressure of the game has always been intense: a chess clock is used to ensure that each player completes the stipulated number of moves in the allotted time - failure to do so results in immediate loss of the game. But now the playing sessions themselves are becoming longer, and many games are played without a break. The increased pressure has swung the pendulum in youth\'s favour. Over the past 30 years, each new world champion has been younger than his predecessor. It is significant that, of the world\'s ten highest-ranked players, eight are under 30.\nNor is it only the way the game is played that has changed. Much of modern chess is played off the board - and not just the battle for psychological advantage that Mr Fischer wages so well. Every professional must now take seriously his pre-match preparation, not least because the age of computer databases has had a profound impact on chess. A small portable computer can hold one million chess games, and give instant access to hundreds of games of a prospective opponent.\nIn one recent contest, each of the protagonists employed large teams of assistants to work round the clock searching for flaws in the other\'s repertoire. The opening stages of a chess game are now analysed to near exhaustion. Simply being better prepared in chess opening can be the deciding factor in the game.\nThe chess world today boasts more first-rate players than at any stage in its history. Hundreds of grandmasters chase modest prize money the world over. Success demands physical as well as mental exertion. A single game may last up to eight hours. For the chess master this period represents a ceaseless struggle. A lapse in concentration can mean disaster. So the adversaries are always in a state of nervous tension.\nThe presence of the chess clock adds to the tension. The climax of the game is often a furious \'time scramble\'. When this occurs, each player has only seconds to make several moves or face instant forfeiture. With minds racing and hands twitching, the masters blitz out their moves and press their clocks with a co-ordination that any athlete would admire. Such moments are not for reflective intellectuals. The game descends into a primeval struggle in which nerves, tenacity and an overwhelming will to win separate victor from vanquished.\nAt the top level of chess, the pain of losing is unbearable. Winning brings immense satisfaction and a chance to recover from the nerves and exhaustion. But one victory is not enough to win a tournament. The chess master must be ready for the struggle the next day. Most chess competitions last for 9-11 days, with play on every day, and there is an all-year-round tournament circuit. World championship matches are even more exacting. The 1984 encounter between Anatoli Karpov and Gary Kasparov in Moscow had to be aborted after several months on the grounds of mutual exhaustion. Mr Karpov had shed around two stone (10kg) in weight.\nCan Mr Fischer defy these odds? He once declared "All I want to do, ever, is play chess."\nThis sentiment made his exodus from the chess world after 1972 seem even more inexplicable. But in some respects it was a fitting end to his story. It immortalised Bobby Fischer.\nIf he has come back for the money, he is onto a good thing. Whatever happens in his match with Mr Spassky, each will end up several million dollars richer. But if Mr Fischer has returned in the sincere belief that he can show he is still the best player in the world, the final result could be heartbreaking.', 'label': '4'}
{'text': "THE DAY I GAVE UP SMOKING\n\nI thought everyone would be pleased, but one of my colleagues was absolutely furious. 'What do you mean?' she raged. 'If it was that easy, why didn't you stop years ago?'\nI suppose my inability to explain how one afternoon I had been a packet-a-day, life-long smoker, and four hours later I was not, was faintly irritating. I find it curious myself.\nThe stop-smoking session was an interesting mixture of group therapy and hypnotherapy and it took place exactly two months and three weeks ago.\nI had not intended to stop and I did not even particularly want to. For one thing, I wholly resented the remorseless pressure from the anti-smoking mob - and I still do. For another, I had low blood pressure and a long-living and healthy family. I did not cough or feel unwell and threw off colds more easily, it seemed to me, than friends with consciously healthier lifestyles.\nOn that unexceptional Thursday afternoon, I had simply gone along to the Birmingham session of The Easy Way to Stop Smoking to write an article about other people trying to give up. 'I shan't be trying to stop myself, it wouldn't be fair,' I announced firmly. 'Since my motivation for being here is writing, not stopping, it would not be right to expect your method to work on me.'\nI could not have been more reasonable. After all, I positively enjoyed smoking. It gave me real pleasure. I thought the counsellor looked at me rather knowingly.\nWe were encouraged to smoke as much as we wished and most of the afternoon was conducted in a room so smoke-filled that we had to open the windows.\nI noticed with interest that when I was told to smoke I was reluctant to do so -- and so were the others.\nI suppose what happened was that the stop-smoking messages made intellectual sense. Just as smoking itself had become a challenge in the face of opposition, so the notion of stopping began to feel attractive.\nThe possibility of not being a smoker was beginning to make me feel powerful. It was a secret feeling that had nothing to do with anyone except myself. Could I also conquer the world?\nIn many senses, it was easy. The physical craving, the pangs of desire for nicotine, in just the same place where you feel hunger, faded after a minute or two and I experienced them over only four or five days.\nThe one activity - my work - that I thought would be the most difficult to accomplish without cigarettes did not cause a single problem. I had really believed that I would not be able to work to deadlines unassisted by nicotine and that for the first time ever I would fail to write a story to order.\nSurprisingly, pottering around at home on weekend mornings proved to be the most difficult thing - and it still is.\nI am increasingly coming to the view dat for me smoking had a great deal to do with displacing boredom; having a cigarette was an activity in itself.\nYes, I do miss my cigarettes, but not too much. Each 'new' experience as a non-smoker has to be addressed - eating out, waiting for an aeroplane, booking into a hotel, a theatre interval. All are key moments in which I would have previously smoked cigarettes.", 'label': '4'}
{'text': "Fame and Fortune\nImogen Edwards-Jones interviews some of the new British talent, from poet to pop star, heading for the top\nA\nNick Grosso, in his early 30s, is the author of three critically acclaimed plays. He is currently adapting his first play, Peaches, into a screenplay. 'It's low budget but we don't know how low,' he explains. 'It certainly won't be over PS30 million, but then it could be 30 quid.'\nAlthough obviously gifted, the most extraordinary thing about Nick is that before he wrote Peaches he had never been to or read a play in his life, 'When I wrote the play, I never even imagined it would get put on,' he says. 'It's set in a car. I probably wouldn't do that now because I know the logistical problems. I knew absolutely nothing then.'\nHe left school at 16, only to return a year later, After A-levels, he enrolled at the Young People's Theatre, 'I realised I wanted to write for actors. I wanted my writing to be heard rather than read because of the rhythm and rhyme,' he says, 'Suddenly I was surrounded by like-minded people. It was the first time I'd been in an educational environment and actually enjoyed myself. It was very stimulating.'\nB\nComedian Simon Pegg, 28, has come a long way in his career since studying drama at Bristol University. He is currently writing a television comedy series, and has just finished a punishing tour around the country with comedy star Steve Coogan,\nHe's always worked hard, Even as far back as Bristol, he was honing his art in comedy clubs. 'It was very theoretical at university,' remembers Simon, 'It made me realise I didn't want to be a straight actor and that I'd always been more interested in comedy, People think that comedy is the hardest job in the world and it really isn't. If you've got the courage and you've got good material, it's a wonderful thing to make people laugh.'\nHe has performed with the comic am Funny Business, but his relationship with Steve Coogan that has proved the most fruitful. 'He saw my show and, as I was a huge fan of his, he could probably see me mimicking him,' admits Simon. 'It was comedy clubs. 'It was very theoretical at university.' remembers Simon, 'It made me realise I didn't want to be a straight actor and that I'd always been more interested in comedy. People think that comedy is the hardest job in the world and it really isn't. If you've got the courage and you've got good material, it's a wonderful thing to make people laugh.'\nC\nCiaran McMenamin, 24, came to the public's attention when he disco-danced into their living rooms as the lead in the series The Young Person's Guide To Becoming A Rock Star, The critical reaction was extremely positive and his subsequent rise has been meteoric. 'It's been a really good showcase for me,' he says with a smile, 'I'm now in a situation where I can pick and choose what I do, which is what I've always wanted.' It is an unusually comfortable position to be in, especially when you consider that he has only just graduated, But glance at Ciaran's early career, and it's obvious such recognition was always on the cards.\nEncouraged by his mother, he went from playing lead roles at school to the Ulster Youth Theatre, where he stayed for four years, 'Basically I was using acting as an excuse not to do homework,' laughs Ciaran. 'But I suddenly decided I wanted to make a go of it because I had a knack for it, and a passion for it.'\nNow he is more or less sitting back and waiting for the plaudits to roll in - but ask him what he thinks of the fame game and he suddenly becomes pensive, 'When you're 18, you think you'll love the photos and the interviews but you soon realise it's not what you're acting for. It's not about that, It's about getting respect for doing good work.'\nD\nNeil Taylor, 25, is the lead singer in the pop band Matrix, which has just signed a three- album deal with Domino Records, Neil and the other half of Matrix, Rick Brown, are already tipped to be huge when their single, Chimera, is released shortly, 'The record company's idea of good sales is very different to mine,' he says, 'They're talking smash hit, but I've no idea, For me, if two people buy it, I'll be happy.'\nUnlike so many new pop sensations, Neil has actually worked very hard for his success, He left school at 16 and has been trying to break into the music business ever since, 'It's funny how things happen,' he says, 'I'd been slogging away doing student gigs for eight years and I was starting to get a bit jaded, I was just about to give up when this happened.' By 'this' he means meeting Rick Brown, who already had contacts at Domino, and forming Matrix, It couldn't have happened at a better time, 'There were times when I was thoroughly depressed - and I've been in some atrocious bands, But hopefully it will all have been worth it.'\nE\nPoet and author Stephen Richards is 27 years old and has won more prizes, awards and academic honours than anyone twice his age, He is already well known on the poetry circuit, where he has been touring and giving several readings a week for the past six years, Now his first novel, Hidden, will be published in March, 'It's a story of obsessive love. It was a very strong idea that I couldn't do as a poem.'\nStephen was a huge fan of creative writing at school, but became disenchanted with education later on, 'I decided not to go to university but it wasn't until I became very bored with stuffing envelopes at a theatre that I decided I should.' After university, he published his first work, a children's book, in 1992, 'I don't think my parents expected me to be a writer - they always thought I'd be a reader because that's all I did as a child.' With his poetry receiving such critical acclaim, his move into novels is indeed brave. 'There's a framework with my poetry and less scope for me to do something hideously wrong,' he explains. 'Because a novel can be any length of words, there are more words that could be bad words. My main ambition is not to get into a pattern where I'm just churning stuff out without worrying about the quality.'\n", 'label': '4'}
{'text': "Blacksmiths\n\nTHROUGHOUT the ages, iron has exerted a powerful pull on the human imagination, and the men who work it have often been regarded as much more than skilled craftsmen. Before the Industrial Revolution, blacksmiths enjoyed the same status as doctors and astrologers, because they were the sole providers of weapons, armour and farming tools.\nThey have also been feted as artises. Eighteenth-century smiths produced the wonderfully baroque ironwork for St Paul's Cathedral. The sinuous metalwork of French and Belgian Art Nouveau architecture was always the work of a talented blacksmith.\nBut practitioners of these ancient skills had become almost extinct in Britain by the late 1960s, for heavy industry had ceased to have any use for them, and towerblock architects rarely used anything as graceful and pleasing as a wrought-iron handrail.\nOver the past 10 years, however, there has been something of a revival - thanks to greater interest in decorative architecture and a less conservative approach to interior design. Even so, much of the work looks surprisingly cliched: manufacturers of gates and balconies still advertise their wares as 'classical' or 'Victorian-style'. You cant walk into a trendy design store without being assailed by rusty candlesticks with dangly bits.\nThankfully, alternatives exist and a series of events over the next few weeks aims to promote the blacksmiths craft. The first of these, an exhibition of forged ironwork by members of the British Artist Blacksmiths Association (BABA), opened last week at the\nFire & Iron gallery in Leatherhead, Surrey.\nAlan Dawson, the secretary of BABA, says: 'We could be at the start of a new Iron Age, because, in a sense, both the general public and blacksmiths have had their blinkers removed.' Power tools have liberated smiths from all that labouring over a hot anvil, and they can now bend, split, twist and spot-weld the metal with relative ease. 'In short,' says Dawson, 'these artists now have a material which allows them to express themselves.'\nAbout 250 pieces have been produced for the show, ranging from bookends to a spiral staircase. Reserve prices start at PS90 and climb well into four figures. Most of the money raised will go to individual makers, 'but a percentage of every sale will be retained by the Association for the promotion of good ironwork,' says Dawson.\nHis own contributions consist of an eight-foot gate, and a standard lamp topped with a mouth-blown glass shade.\n'My style results from just allowing steel to bend and flow into shape when its hot. It's a bit like drawing with metal in space,' he says.\nMany of the artists admit to being fascinated by iron. Unlike most metals, which are relatively malleable when cold, iron and steel are a tougher, more demanding medium. Susan May, a jeweller by training, says, 'It's quite magical, because its incredibly soft when its hot, but as soon as it cools down, it becomes really rigid and immovable again.'\nAnn Catrin Evans' mild steel door-knockers and handles seem to have been inspired by those bleak castles that are a stock feature of horror films. One of her designs is shaped like a ball and chain, another like a Celtic cross. 'I love the fact that steel is cold and hard,' she says. 'And the way it feels as though its there forever.'\nNo other base metal can have given man as much visual pleasure, or a greater feeling of security. The chances of iron being used decoratively for the next thousand years are good, to say the least as long as we don't have to look at any more rusty Candlesticks, that is.", 'label': '4'}
{'text': "The pen is mightier than the psychoanalyst\n\nThe study of handwriting to reveal a person's character is gaining support\n\nIf you applied for a job in some countries, you would almost certainly be asked for a sample of your handwriting. And it would be the handwriting, as much as anything else, that would determine your suitability for the job.\nHandwriting analysis, or graphology, is accepted as a genuine science in many countries. Researchers say it can be a useful tool in indicating certain illnesses, such as heart disease and cancer, and can reveal psychological states and emotional disturbances.\nHandwriting analysis is increasingly being used for vocational guidance and as an adjunct to interviews. Many big companies now employ graphologists to analyse the handwriting of potential candidates for key jobs.\nBut most doctors and psychiatrists remain dubious about the value of graphology. Patricia Marne, a professional graphologist for more than 20 years, argues that they should take it more seriously. She believes that handwriting can indicate psychological characteristics as well as certain medical conditions.\nShe says: 'Handwriting is a powerful indicator of social class and intelligence. But more than that, it can be used to assess mental ability and potential, whether a person should concentrate on arts or sciences, and whether they have a devious or open character.'\nAccording to Ms Marne, graphology can be particularly useful in assessing possible criminal tendencies: 'Criminals all have disturbed handwriting, mostly illiterate and poorly-shaped. Most criminals come from deprived backgrounds and have arrested emotional development. This often shows up in unusually childish handwriting and in going over letters several times.\n\nThe person behind the handwriting: examples analysed by graphologist Patricia Marne. 'I can tell whether people are honest, manipulators, or reliable employees.'\n\n'Young male offenders frequently have very high ascenders, indicating that they live in a world of fantasy and dream of making it big. Graphologists can tell whether violence is about to erupt, whether the writer is under unbearable pressure, and whether there are psychopathic tendencies. Handwriting can be used to predict would-be suicides.'\nHeart and lung problems can also show up, she says. 'You can't make a diagnosis from one sample, unless the writing is obviously shaky or disturbed. But if over a period of time it changes or becomes disjointed, if there's a break in the signature which did not exist previously, that could be a sign that something quite serious has occurred.'\nA severe emotional upset can also show up in a temporarily altered signature, she maintains.\nMs Marne says handwriting can be used to reveal other psychological characteristics. People with writing in which letters form 'threads' instead of being individually forms are, apparently, devious and clever. Those who write mainly in capitals are trying to conceal their true selves from others. Very light pressure indicates sensitivity and lack of vitality. Originality in handwriting - how far the writer has deviated from copybook script - indicates confidence and artistic ability. Disconnected writing is the cardinal sign of the loner.\nVery small signatures indicate inhibition and an inferiority complex; circles over the 'i' are a bid for attention, and crossing the 't' heavily over the whole word is a sign of intolerance and a patronising attitude.\nMs Marne says it takes six years of study and experience to be able to analyse handwriting accurately, and this has to be combined with empathy and intuition. She feels that more research is needed to put graphology on a proper scientific footing.\nThis will happen soon, she believes. 'It's actually far more accurate than psychoanalysis, as you can tell the whole history of the person, including all their emotional crises, without asking them questions to which they may give wrong answers.'\nInteresting as all this may sound, there is little hard evidence to support such claims. Some psychiatrists are highly critical of them. Handwriting, they say, is a product of education, artistic ability and the type of writing taught - and has no other significance.", 'label': '4'}
{'text': "Explore Worldwide - small groups leave few footprints\n\nExplore Worldwide is right in the forefront of adventure travel with trips designed for people who want to get more out of their holiday than just a beach. Our emphasis is on travel to new and unusual destinations, coupled with interesting and original itineraries. Our brochure contains over 100 original adventures - tours, treks, safaris and expeditions - in more than 60 countries around the world. Most trips last from 1-4 weeks.\n\nSmall Groups\n\nAveraging 16 people. Small informal groups, expertly led. Giving you a real opportunity to discover more about the places we visit for yourself. More personal involvement brings you closer to the local scene and the local peoples. A stimulating experience for all travellers.\n\nDifferent Modes of Travel\n\nMany different kinds of transport are used. Often on the same trip. We travel by chartered coach or local bus, by train, expedition vehicle, minibus, boat, canoe, raft, camel, light plane etc. And often on foot. Each trip takes on the character of the local terrain.\n\nWho Travels with Explore?\n\nInteresting people with the resilience to tackle new situations and get the most out of an original adventure. Mainly from the UK, Europe, Australia, New Zealand, Canada and the States. All our trips are designed to be within the capabilities of almost anyone who enjoys good health, is reasonably fit, and above all adaptable. The majority are aged between 25 and 55. About half are couples. The rest are enterprising individuals travelling alone.\n\nActivities and Interests\n\nIt's not easy to describe Explore Worldwide. Each trip is completely unique. So we have divided our worldwide adventures into 8 different categories, describing some of the main activities and interests. Each category represents a special highlight that is an integral part of a particular tour, and of course trips have several different highlights. However, please bear in mind that many other factors contribute to the success of all our trips as a whole. Unique places, unusual encounters, strange customs, unpredictable events, personal involvement - all play their part in the full enjoyment of your holiday.\n\nCultural/Adventure\n\nAlmost all the trips in our brochure have a strong cultural feeling. But a certain number of tours have this as their primary emphasis, focusing closely on local cultures, ethnic peoples and classic sites. For example, anyone looking for destinations of outstanding cultural and historical interest should consider our trips in Egypt, Jordan, Syria, Yemen, Turkey, Greece, India, Bhutan, Thailand, China, Peru, Bolivia, Guatemala and Belize - to mention a few of the places featured in our programme! Short day walks of 2-4 hours to visit unusual or off-the-tourist-track sites are often an integral part of our trips.\n\nWildlife and Natural History\n\nOur wildlife safaris visit many of the world's greatest game parks and offer a thrilling encounter with animals in their natural state. Choose from dozens of remarkable destinations. In Africa, for example, you often have the freedom to step outside your safari vehicle and tackle the wild terrain for yourself. You could track the rare silver-back mountain gorilla in Zaire, go bush walking with tribal guides in Uganda, climb Mount Kenya, ride a canoe on the Zambezi River or a traditional mokoro in the Okavango Delta. Most African safaris camp, and full camping equipment is provided. A few offer hotel and lodge accommodation throughout. Elsewhere, in Asia and South America, on trips which include game viewing - say, our tiger safari in India - we usually stay in hotels, resthouses and jungle lodges. In Darwin's famous Galapagos Islands we live aboard a small motor yacht.\n\nEthnic Encounters\n\nA special highlight of an Explore Worldwide adventure is the opportunity it offers to meet ethnic or tribal peoples. These could be the 'Blue Men' or Tuareg of the Central Sahara, the Maya of Mexico, or the colourful Huli of Papua New Guinea. Some, like the Bushmen of the Kalahari Desert, are nomadic wanderers. Others, like the pygmies of the Ituri Forest, are hunter-gatherers; or dry rice farmers like the friendly hilltribe peoples of Northern Thailand. Many are often part of an 'Old World' culture. Their societies are often under serious threat from unscrupulous exploiters. We travel in small groups only. Our aim is to help spread tolerance and understanding between different races and peoples, with the minimum of culture and environmental disturbance.\n\nEasy/Moderate Hiking\n\nMany trips include a few days' easy walking through open countryside, based on rented or hotel accommodation; also village-to-village hiking which involves some trail walking with the prospect of overnighting along the way in private houses or basic village huts. You'll find such trips in Spain's Sierra Nevada, in Provence, Tuscany, Crete, Corsica, Greece, Morocco, Turkey, Bulgaria, Thailand, Bhutan, Nepal, Venezuela, and many other Explore Worldwide destinations. On long distance walks involving more than one day, all your main luggage is transported by a separate vehicle, or carried by porters or pack animals. You simply bring a daypack for your personal gear.\n\nMajor Treks\n\nA limited number of major treks are offered for strong mountain walkers. These sometimes involve walking at elevations over 10,000 feet, with substantial altitude gains and losses during a single day. We may lodge with the local people or rough-camp in the world's great mountain ranges like the Atlas, Kackar, Himalayas and Andes. Or we use a mixture of well-appointed camp-sites and alpine chalets in more sophisticated mountain areas such as the Alps. Such trips usually involve support vehicles, porterage or pack animals. We rarely backpack or carry heavy gear.\n\nWilderness Experience\n\nDiscovering one of the world's remote wilderness areas is a thrilling and memorable experience - perhaps the ultimate travel adventure. Such places have a strong fascination for the intrepid traveller, holding out the prospect of exotic new horizons. We explore the haunting beauty of the Amazon Rainforest and experience the powerful mystique of the Sahara, Great Thor, Namib and Gobi Deserts. They offer a chance to participate in an adventure few people could ever dream of.\n\nSailtreks/Seatreks\n\nThese are among the most original and relaxing holidays in our brochure. We charter local boats and journey by traditional felucca sailboat through Upper Egypt; we utilise gulets (wooden motor yachts) in Turkey and island-to-island ferries in countries like Greece and Thailand. Our 2-masted schooner explores the islands of the Indonesian Archipelago, while a small motor yacht is chartered to cruise among the unique wildlife habitats of the Galapagos.\n\nRaft and River Journeys\n\nRiver journeys can last from a few hours to several days, and range from 2-person inflatables which participants paddle themselves (on the Dordogne River, for example) to all the fun, thrills and excitement of whitewater railing navigated by skilled oarsmen (such as on Peru's beautiful Urubamba River or the wild Trisuli River in Nepal). No previous experience is necessary and the appropriate safety skills are quickly learned. Our river trips in India, Africa and the Amazon offer us a unique insight into the fertile margins and exotic jungles.", 'label': '4'}
{'text': "Should the media earn money from content they don't own? \n\nAlthough digital cameras and camera phones have made it easier to capture newsworthy events, it is social media that have revolutionised citizen photography. With news regularly breaking on social networks, some journalists are now turning to them as sources of images as fast-moving events occur. Unfortunately, some reporters have published user-generated content (UGC) without permission. Despite official guidance that images posted on social media can be used without permission if there are exceptional circumstances or strong public interest, debate continues about whether this is ethical. \nWith research indicating that around one in ten people would film or photograph a news event, it is clear that UGC has a major role to play in the future of the media. However, if the media is to prevent its relationship with the public from souring, steps must be taken to ensure that people are properly rewarded for their work and that permission is always sought. ", 'label': '4'}
{'text': "Tapping into a food supply\n\nIn the forests of Madagascar there lives a primate with a lifestyle remarkably like a woodpecker's. Both the woodpecker and the primate, the rare and elusive aye-aye, bore through wood and probe cavities beneath the surface in their search for insect larvae. The woodpecker, of course, uses its beak for chiselling into the wood and its long tongue to extract its prey; the aye-aye, on the other hand, uses its incisor teeth to gnaw its way in and its narrow, elongated third finger to probe and scoop. Though the aye-aye's strange way of feeding was first described over a hundred years ago, scientists have only now discovered how it locates the insects hidden inside the wood.\nDr Carl Erickson, of Duke University's Primate Center, has been investigating the hunting skills of two captive males, Nosferatu and Poe, a female, Samantha, and her infant daughter, Annabelle (Animal Behaviour, vol. 41 pp. 793-802). He first tested whether they found insects just by looking for the telltale visual signs of their presence. For example, holes on the surface might indicate sites where female insects had entered the wood and laid their eggs. Dr Erickson presented the aye-ayes with logs in which he had drilled several narrow holes. Some holes led to cavities containing mealworms while others were blank dead-ends. The aye-ayes went straight for the cavities with food, gnawing through the wood and clearly not requiring the visual clues of surface holes.\nPerhaps the aye-ayes were locating the mealworms by their smell or the sounds they were making. But further tests showed that they didn't use these clues either. Logs in which the smell of the insects was prevented from leaking out presented no problem, and the aye-ayes also located dead (and therefore silent) mealworms.\nIf they weren't seeing, smelling or hearing the insects, how were the aye-ayes able to find them? Dr Erickson discovered that they would gnaw down to empty cavities as well as those containing mealworms. They could apparently sense the cavity itself.\nWhen searching for food, an aye-aye taps the surface of the wood with its middle finger and brings its exceptionally large ears forward, focusing them at a point in front of its nose. Dr Erickson suggests that the animal is echo-locating, listening and perhaps feeling for reverberations of the taps that indicate a hollow space below. It can probably also hear the rustle of insects, which might move when disturbed by the tapping from above.\nThe theory that the aye-aye takes the place of woodpeckers in the woodpecker-free forests of Madagascar is an attractive one. But there are birds, such as the Sickle-billed and Nuthatch Vangas, which do probe for or glean insects from wood, and so the woodpecker niche may not be vacant. Not only can the aye-aye be regarded as a woodpecker and an echo-locating bat rolled into one, but it also behaves like a squirrel (indeed, it was originally classified as one). Its incisors grow continuously like a squirrel's, and it has recently been observed in the wild gnawing through the shells of nuts, and extracting the meat of the nut with its elongated finger.", 'label': '4'}
{'text': 'Ordinary people, ordinary lives\n\nMost of us have photographs of our grandparents, but how many of us know what their lives were like, the sort of people they were in their youth? The glimpses rare diaries give us are frustratingly incomplete, family anecdotes only half remembered. And what will our grandchildren know about us? We often intend to write things down, but never get round to it. We may leave videos rather than photographs, but the images will remain two-dimensional.\nHannah Renier has come up with an answer: she writes other people\'s autobiographies, producing a hardback book of at least 20,000 words -- with illustrations if required - a chronicle not of the famous, but of the ordinary.\nThe idea came to her when she talked to members of her family and realised how much of the past that was part of her own life was disappearing. \n"When I started I didn\'t take it nearly so seriously as I do now, having met people who genuinely will talk and have led interesting lives," she says. "They would say they are doing it for their children or for posterity, but they are getting quite a lot out of it themselves. They enjoy doing it."\nThe assurance of confidentiality encourages her subjects to overcome any instinct of self-censorship. \n"I had the confidence to be honest," says a 62-year-old man who made and lost one fortune before making another. "I was surprised at what came out. There were things that hurt, like my divorce, and the pain was still there."\n"I did it for my family, so that perhaps they could learn something, but I have not yet let my children - who are in their thirties - read it. They were hurt by things in my life and there are a lot of details which I don\'t feel I want them to know at the moment. If they insist, I\'ll let them. But I think I\'d rather they read it after I was dead."\nHe also recognised patterns laid down in childhood, which showed themselves in repeatedly making the same mistakes. It is something Ms Renier has detected in other people. "It\'s amazing how many people really have been conditioned by their parents," she says. "The injunctions and encouragements that were laid down in childhood have effects for the rest of their lives. They become caught in repeating patterns of behaviour. They marry the sort of people of whom their parents approved -- or go in the opposite direction as a sort of rebellion."\n"A lot of disappointments come out. Sixty years later they still are regretting or resenting things that were never resolved with their parents. There is no age of reason. If people had hang-ups in their youth, they still have them in middle age. They live their lives in an attempt to impress a parent who wasn\'t impressed and if that fails some of them seem to be seeking permission to say \'I can\'t stand my mother\'."\nRecorder rather than inquisitor, Ms Renier keeps her distance. "It\'s not for public consumption and I\'m not there as a very nosy person. People have got carried away and told me something, then said, \'I\'m not sure if that ought to go in\'. I put it in anyway - they can remove things when they see the draft. But generally people want to be honest, warts and all."\n"It\'s not vanity publishing, it\'s not people saying \'Gosh, I\'ve had such an interesting life the world\'s got to know about it.\' Things are moving much faster than at any time in history and we are losing sight of what happened in the past. It\'s a way of giving roots. We need some sort of link to our ancestors because people don\'t sit around in an extended family any more. People want a little immortality."\nEach book involves up to 30 hours of taped interviews which Ms Renier uses as the basis to write the life story, rearranging the chronology and interpreting. Modern technology allows her to produce everything except the binding with its gold lettering: choose your own colour of library buckram, pick your own title.\nFascinating to the private audience at which each book is aimed, the results are obviously not of the dirt-at-any-cost school of life story. Ms Renier organises her material logically and writes well, the final content is as good as its subject. The hook that emerges does not look like a cheap product - and carries a price tag of nearly PS3,000, with extra copies at PS25 each. She receives about 10 inquiries a week, but the cost - inevitable with the time involved -- clearly deters many people.\n"I thought it would be a more downmarket product than it is," she says. "But the people I\'ve done have all been county types, readers of Harpers & Queen, which is one of the magazines where I advertise. They\'re the sort of people who at one time would have had their portraits painted to leave to their descendants."', 'label': '4'}
{'text': "Careers\n\nSix people talk about their typical working day\n\nA. Credit Card Executive\n\nI get up at 6 am to arrive at the office around 7.30 am. I manage all the customer development programmes for our regular credit card users. My responsibilities include the launch and management of the Membership Rewards scheme in the major European markets. I have to keep in touch with existing card users, acquire new ones and build relationships with partner companies.\nI use the first 45 minutes to organise my day and then I respond to any e-mail messages. I manage all the advertising for the membership programme across Europe, so I meet with our marketing staff and the advertising agencies to establish a strategy and work on future developments. I have meetings scheduled for most of the day, but at all other times I make sure I keep my door open for anyone to come and ask me questions.\nThere are nine customer service units around Europe and I have to travel to the different markets once or twice a week to discuss issues that come up. When I'm in London, I leave work between 6.30 pm and 7.00 pm.\n\nB. Record Company Executive\n\nI get to work for 10.00 am and go through the post - between ten and twenty demonstration tapes a day, letters from producers and information about concerts, as well as invoices from session musicians and studios. The phone starts ringing at about 10.30 am - producers, publishers and so on, and there are meetings arranged throughout the day to talk about campaigns or projects for a particular artist. This might involve the press, marketing and the managing director.\nWhen I listen to demo tapes I am very aware that people are bringing in their life's work, so I try to be constructive. I instinctively know if the sound is appropriate for our record label. Once I've signed a band, we start on the first album - choosing the songs, producer, and additional musicians. Then I have to communicate my vision of the album to the rest of the company for marketing and selling. I also oversee budgets and spending.\nI leave work at 7.00 pm at the earliest and most evenings I go to gigs - sometimes I see as many as five new groups a night. Sometimes after a gig I'll visit an artist in the studio. Most of my socialising evolves around my work. I often don't get home until 1.00 am - when I put on a record to help me wind down.\n\nC. Sales Director\n\nI get up at 8.00 am and drive to work to arrive at 9.30 am. I open the post, look through the diary to check if we're going to see any clients that day, then wait and see who turns up.\nI love taking people round the showrooms - there's nothing better than reaching an agreement with someone, selling them a piece of furniture and knowing it's going to a good home. We sell antiques from PS1,000 to PS6,000 and buy from the London salerooms, country house sales, our private clients and overseas.\nA lot of what we buy needs restoration. We have a full-time restorer in the shop, and I spend a lot of time liaising with gilders, picture framers and paper repairers. I read the Antiques Trade Gazette while I drink coffee at odd moments, to keep in touch with what's going on in the business, and I often pop into the Victoria and Albert museum to compare furniture.\nI do the accounts one day every month and every three months I do the tax returns. At 5.30 pm I go home. It usually takes me about an hour to switch off.\n\nD. Air Traffic Controller\n\nI work a set shift pattern, and when I'm on an early shift I leave the house at 6.00 am. At 7.00 am I relieve the night shift and take over one of the four control positions in the tower.\nWe have a rotating timetable, which means that I work for about an hour and a half at one of the stations, go off for half an hour and then come back to a different station. The air traffic controllers, a supervisor and the watch manager all sit near to each other and work as a team, controlling the aircraft movements.\nIn winter we deal with about 1,000 movements a day, and even more in summer. Night shifts are much quieter, and I usually get a chance to read up on new air traffic requirements between 12 and 4.00 am.\nIt's important to be really switched on in this job, so even if I'm only a bit under the weather I have no qualms about being off sick. I find the work quite stressful and it can take a while to wind down at the end of a shift. Eventually I'd like to be watch manager, and then maybe even general manager of the airport.\n\nE. Shop Manager\n\nIf I'm on an early shift, I leave the house by 8.00 am. The first thing I do is get the electronic point-of-sale system up and running.\nI always make sure there's someone to watch the till and I co-ordinate people's lunches and breaks. I spend the morning helping customers, finding and ordering books for them. I enjoy serving customers, although it can be a bit annoying if they come in waving reviews and expect you to run around gathering a pile of books for them.\nBetween 2.00 pm and 4.00 pm most weekdays, publishers' reps come into the shop and I spend some time discussing new titles for the months ahead. I have to consider how many, if any, of a particular title the shop is likely to sell. When we want to feature a new title, it's essential that I make sure it's delivered in time.\nThe early shift finishes at 5.45 pm. Two days a week I do a late shift, and then I close down the computer system, lock up and go home.\n\nF. Financial Analyst\n\nI listen to the news at 7.00 am, then get up and take a taxi to arrive at work at 8.45 am. First I get in touch with our freelance reporters to find out what is happening in the region I'm responsible for.\nI assess financial risk for multi-national companies operating abroad, so it is my job to try to warn clients well in advance of anything that could go wrong in that country. I provide three services: an on-line executive preview, or newsflash; a security forecast, which is an extended preview plus a forecast for the next six months; and a travel information security guide.\nFrom 9.15 am to 9.30 am I meet with our editors to discuss the stories I'm going to follow. My first executive preview has to be on-line by 10.00 am and my second deadline is 11.00 am, so I have to be quick chasing up stories. I type them, send them through to my editor, who edits and approves them, then I re-check and make any necessary alterations before they go through the system. \nI travel to Africa about three times a year, to report on specific events or just to keep up with what is happening. I leave work at around 6.00 pm. It's quite difficult to switch off and most evenings I'm still awake at 1.00 am.", 'label': '4'}
{'text': 'Take Five Careers\n\nRebecca Cripps meets five women who discuss their different professions: the highlights, the drawbacks and their typical working day.\n\nA. THE BRAIN SURGEON\n\nName: Anne\n\nAge: 34\n\nANNE\'S DAY\n\n"I get up at 6.30am, go the gym at 7am, get to work by 8am and start operating at 8.30am. I operate all Monday and Wednesday, as well as some Friday afternoons. Most standard head operations take three hours, but some operations take all day. I\'ve worked ten hours straight through on occasion without eating or going to the loo.\nDeciding when to operate, and what to do, can be stressful. I don\'t feel particularly stressed when operating, but sometimes I worry about what I\'m going to do the next day. Brain surgery tends to be a last resort for a patient, but when it works it\'s tremendous, and more than makes up for the unsuccessful times. From 10am to 1pm I hold an out-patients\' clinic, when I explain the operations. I enjoy this and find it quite easy to talk to the patients. If they get upset, I comfort them, but time pressure can make this difficult.\nI leave work between 6pm and 8pm. Some nights and weekends I\'m on call, and I always carry my bleeper. On holidays, I worry for the first three days about the people I\'ve left behind, and at night I dream I\'m operating. I\'m hopeless at switching off."\n\nB. THE SENIOR DESIGNER\n\nName: Marita\n\nAge: 31\n\nMARITA\'S DAY\n\n"I get up at Z45am, leave the house by 8.20am, take the train to work and arrive at 9.15am. At 10.30am on Monday we meet to discuss what were doing, any problems or whether anyone needs help. We work in teams - in my team there are three senior designers, a company partner who oversees everything, and a junior designer. The work usually involves ten to fifteen per cent design: the rest is production. I\'ll be given a brief by the client - with luck the company will have clear ideas about what they want to say, their target market and the form of the project. I then spend three or four weeks designing, researching and developing the project.\nAfter this I present my ideas to the client and once they\'ve agreed to them, we work out estimates and budgets, and I start commissioning photographers and illustrators. I liaise with the printers and make sure the needs of the job are being met, and on time. I spend a lot of time managing people. I have to be able to communicate with a broad range of people, and briefing them correctly is essential. When their work comes in, I assemble everything and send it to the printers. Keeping several jobs going at once can send stress levels sky-high. Deadlines are always looming, and no day has a set structure.\nLunch is at 1pm for an hour, when we try to get out to the pub. Otherwise I have sandwiches and work through. It\'s a great feeling if the client gives a good response to the designs you\'ve done and you know the project has worked; it\'s a great disappointment when you\'ve worked really hard and the job gets rejected. I get home at 7.30pm at the earliest; often it\'s 8.30pm and sometimes much later. I find it hard to unwind when I get back, especially if I\'m very busy."\n\nC. THE CHAUFFEUR\n\nName: Linda\n\nAge: 42\n\nLINDA\'S DAY\n\n"I get up at about 7am most days, but two or three mornings a week I meet a long-haul flight from Heathrow or Gatwick and get up between 4.30am and 5am. At 10.30 or 11am I might go for a bike ride, or swim. Because chauffeuring is a sedentary job, I have to watch my diet and exercise quite carefully. I usually have a big breakfast, though, and just have snacks during the day. People often ask me to recommend restaurants, nightclubs or shops, so I have to know my way around. Luckily, a lot of the jobs are pre-booked, so I get a chance to look routes up beforehand. Not everyone is polite. Some passengers are anti-social, some arrogant, some downright rude. But most of the time people are very well behaved and I\'ve built up a good rapport with my regular clients.\nThere are times when I hear a conversation in the car and have to make sure my eyes are firmly on the road and my ears shut. Sometimes the press have tried to make me talk about clients I\'ve carried, but I won\'t. I work a seven-day week, up to fifteen hours a day. I have to be careful not to get too tired. I try to get to bed by 11pm."\n\nD. THE LANDSCAPE GARDENER\n\nName: Tracy\n\nAge: 27\n\nTRACY\'S DAY\n\n"I get up at about 7am, leave the house at 7.30am and get to my first job. My assistant and I spend most of our time maintaining gardens we originally designed and landscaped. We do a few commercial jobs but most of our work is in private gardens. We spend about an hour and a half at each house. At about 11am we get hungry and go to a local cafe for a big breakfast. I often look at my watch and wish it was earlier and that time didn\'t pass so quickly. In summer I may work until 10pm; in winter until 4.30pm.\nThe business office is at home, so when I get back I listen to any messages and respond to any calls. If someone wants their garden landscaped, I\'ll usually arrange a consultation with them in the evening - at about 7pm or 8pm. We specialise in using old materials, such as old bricks and unusual plants, to make gardens look as if they were built a long time ago. But sometimes people have a set idea of what they want, and it can be pretty horrible. Still, its very satisfying when we do a complete landscape from start to finish and then see all the blooms come out.\nIt\'s hard to relax in the evenings because I can always hear the business line when it rings. I never have any trouble sleeping because the work I do is so physical that I\'m always exhausted at the end of the day. I wouldn\'t say I\'m very strong, but I\'m fit. Physically, it\'s a very tough job, but it does let your imagination run wild."\n\nE. THE CIVIL ENGINEER\n\nName: Zena\n\nAge: 27\n\nZENA\'S DAY\n\n"I arrive at the site by 8.30am. I\'m assistant resident engineer at the site, so I\'m looking after the building of a couple of bridges and a retaining wall - which prevents people driving off the road into a quarry. I check that the contractors are working to the schedule and specifications, with correct safety systems and minimum environmental impact. I help to co-ordinate the site professionals and find solutions to any problems.\nThe contractors start work at 6am, so my first task is to find out from the clerk of works what\'s been going on since I left the night before. The rest of the day is a reaction to whatever he tells me. Usually there\'s some paperwork from the contractors to look at, or there might be design queries to answer.\nLunch is usually for half an hour between 2pm and 2.30pm, but I tend to grab things to eat as I go along. The contractors have set mealtimes and when they\'re off eating it\'s easier to check things on site. Because we\'re checking their work it can cause conflict, so our relationship has to be as open as possible. I see the duty resident engineer once a day. However, if something really important comes up I don\'t wait to tell them before I act. I usually leave the site at about 6pm and Im on call all the time.', 'label': '4'}
{'text': "Volunteer tourism \n\nFour academic writers discuss the topic of international voluntary work. \n \nA.\nIt is hard to argue that the actual contribution to development amounts to a great deal directly. Whilst volunteer tourists can get involved in building homes or schools, they have usually paid a significant fee for the opportunity to be involved in this work: money that, if donated to a local community directly, could potentially pay for a greater amount of labour than the individual volunteer could ever hope to provide. This is especially so in the case of gap years, in which the level of technical skill or professional experience required of volunteers is negligible. Hence, it is unsurprising that many academic studies allude to the moral issue of whether gap year volunteering is principally motivated by altruism - a desire to benefit the society visited - or whether young people aim to generate 'cultural capital' which benefits them in their careers. However, the projects may play a role in developing people who will, in the course of their careers and lives, act ethically in favour of those less well-off. \n\nB.\nVolunteering may lead to greater international understanding; enhanced ability to solve conflicts; widespread and democratic participation in global affairs through global civic society organisations; and growth of international social networks among ordinary people. In this scenario, the whole is greater than the sum of its parts, an outcome where benefits accrue to volunteers and host communities, and contribute to the global greater good. However, if volunteering is largely limited to individuals of means from wealthier areas of the world, it may give these privileged volunteers an international perspective, and a career boost, but it will do little for people and communities who currently lack access to international voluntary work. Those who volunteer will continue to reap its benefits, using host organisations and host communities as a rung on the ladder of personal advancement. \n\nC.\nAt its worst, international volunteering can be imperialist, paternalistic charity, volunteer tourism, or a self-serving quest for career and personal development on the part of well-off Westerners. Or it can be straightforward provision of technical assistance for international development. At its best, international volunteering brings benefits (and costs) to individual volunteers and the organisations within which they work, at the same time as providing the space for an exchange of technical skills, knowledge, and cross-cultural experience in developing communities. Most significantly, volunteering can raise awareness of, and a lifelong commitment to combating, existing unequal power relations and deep-seated causes of poverty, injustice, and unsustainable development. \n \n \nD.\nVolunteer tourism seems to fit well with the growth of life strategies to help others. Such limited strategies, aimed at a humble 'making a difference', can appear positive and attractive in an anti-political climate. The personal element appears positive - it bypasses big government and eschews big business. Yet it also bypasses the democratic imperative of representative government and reduces development to individual acts of charity, most often ones that seek to work around rather than transform the situations of poor, rural societies. Cynicism at the act of volunteering is certainly misplaced. The act of volunteer tourism may involve only simple, commendable charity. However, where volunteer tourism is talked up as sustainable development and the marketing of the gap-year companies merges into development thinking, this is symptomatic of a degradation of the discourse of development. The politics of volunteer tourism represents a retreat from a social understanding of global inequalities and the poverty lived by so many in the developing word. ", 'label': '4'}
{'text': "Sea, Ice & Rock\n\nMountaineer Chris Bonnington (58) is best known for scaling the summit of Everest in 1985. He has also pioneered routes in Britain and the Alps and written many books, including Quest for Adventure and Everest the Hard Way. Robin Knox-Johnston (53) began his sea career in the Merchant Navy.\nIn 1968-9 he was the first to circumnavigate the world single-handed, in his yacht Sunhaili. He broke the transatlantic record, taking 10 days to reach the Lizard from New York. The two teamed up to sail and climb in Greenland, recording the trip in their new book: Sea, Ice and Rock.\n\nIn 1979 I was working on Quest for Adventure, a study of post-war adventure. I called Robin to ask for an interview and he said would I like to join him for a sail. I could show him some climbing techniques and he could show me the rudiments of sailing.\nIt was the first time I'd been on a yacht. We sailed for a while and then anchored. Robin's wife and daughter stayed on the boat and we paddled to the shore to exercise Robin's skills at climbing.\nThe route was quite difficult and I was impressed at how steady Robin was in tricky conditions. He just padded quietly along. After a bit we I arrived at this huge drop. I asked Robin if he had ever climbed before. He hadn't, so I showed him. When I had finished, Robin very politely asked if he could go down the way he climbed down ropes on his boat.\nHe was used to using his arms, I wanted him to use his legs. I wasn't too happy about it, but he lowered himself down quite safely. It was during that trip to Skye that Robin and I built the foundation of a very real friendship.\nHis proposal that we should combine our skills on a joint trip to Greenland was just an extension, on a rather grand scale, of our voyage to Skye. Robin impressed me immensely as a leader. Traditionally, the skipper makes all the decisions.\nBut Robin made a point of consulting everyone first. Most of the time, nobody dared to advise him, but it was nice to feel you were part of the decision-making process.\nTo be frank, I found the sailing trying and very boring. The moments of crisis which we had on the way back were easy to deal with: the adrenaline pumps and you get all worked up. The bit I found difficult was spending day after day in the middle of the sea.\nI am a land-lover and not really a do-it-yourself type of person. Robin, in contrast, is a natural sailor and seemed to enjoy tinkering with the engine or mending the lavatory. I was aware that Robin didn't really need me.\nTo be honest, I felt a bit useless at times; I found that very trying. The crew was also packed very close together: six people on a 32ft yacht, designed to sleep four. At least when you're on a mountain expedition you have a chance to get away from each other.\nWhen we reached Greenland and it was my turn to 'lead' the expedition, I found it difficult taking responsibility for Robin's life. There were many instances climbing together when if Robin had fallen, he could have pulled me off with him. I had to watch for that constantly. I underestimated how difficult the Cathedral -- Greenland's highest mountain - would be.\nRobin isn't a natural climber, which made his efforts even more impressive. The first time we tried to reach the pinnacle, we were on the go for 24 hours. On the way down we were dropping asleep on 50 degree slopes, 1,500 feet above the ground. Robin went to hell and back, but he totally put his confidence in me.\nHe just followed. When it got too difficult and I realised wed have to turn back, he accepted it. I also knew that Robin was worried about the boat: whether we'd be able to get it through the ice, whether it was in one piece.\nYet he was all in favour of us having another go at climbing the mountain. The only time there was a near-crisis in our relationship was on the yacht on the way home. We were taking it in turns to be on watch. I was supposed to get up at 4 am for my shift, but Robin decided not to wake me. He felt he could do it himself.\nThe previous night I'd almost dropped asleep. I felt that he didn't trust me - I felt insecure, and I said so. Robin immediately reassured me that I'd jumped to the wrong conclusion.\nWhile we enjoyed the Skye trip, we didn't really know each other until the end of the Greenland expedition. I found that underneath his bluff exterior, Robin was a kind-beaned, sensitive person.", 'label': '4'}
{'text': 'Three theories about sleep \n\nPeople spend about one-third of their lives asleep. It seems certain, therefore, that sleep has a vital function. However, what that function might be is still in debate. Scientists are far from being in agreement about precisely why so much of our precious time is given over to sleep. \nThere seem to be three main theories. The most popular states that the functions and purposes of sleep are primarily physiological. It claims that we sleep in order to maintain the health of our body. In other words, biological processes work hard as we sleep to repair any damage done during the day and to restore ourselves to full efficiency. However, a second theory places more emphasis on the learning benefits of sleep. This theory holds that sleep allows us to process the information that we acquire during the day, and asserts that, without sleep, learning would not take place. A third popular theory is based on ideas about energy, saying that we need periods of sleep in order to, in a sense, recharge our batteries and so have an adequate supply of energy for the coming day. ', 'label': '4'}
{'text': "Plugging in the home\n\nGeorgina McGuiness had taken a long career break from journalism and she felt out of touch with the changes brought about by technology. She recounts here how she was able to transform the family home into an efficient workplace.\n\nThe Christmas before last I turned 37 and realised that time was running out if I wanted to resurrect a career in journalism - which I believed had been washed down the plug-hole ... the technological plug-hole.\nA quick glance at my curriculum vitae showed that I was shamefully stuck in the 1980s, when a piece of carbon wedged in between several sheets of paper in a typewriter was the state of the art. It seemed that only a madman would let me loose on a computer in his newsroom. And why did most of the jobs advertised ask for experience in desktop publishing - which I didn't have?\nI thought I had a better chance of hosting a seminar in nuclear physics than attempting to lay out a page on a computer. I was the family technophobe; even pocket calculators were a mystery to me and I still don't know how to use the timer on the video.\nClearly, there was a gaping hole in what was left of my career and I had to act quickly. Leaving home before the children did would be fraught with obstacles, or so I thought until I entered a competition in a local newspaper. Like a success story you read or hear about that only ever happens to other people, my family and I won a computer package.\nSupplied with a laptop computer to free my husband from his desk, and a personal computer for us all, we dived in at the deep end into a strange new world and terms such as cyberspace, Internet and surfing became commonplace in our vocabulary. We took to chatting like old pals via the Internet to strangers around the world. The children forsook the television and I set up a mini-office in a corner of the kitchen with a telephone-answering facility, a fax machine, a CD-ROM, and a modem linking me into the information superhighway.\nI had everything I would need for working from home - and I could still manage to take the children to school. They were confident with computers from the start, already well versed in them from school. I was much more hesitant, convinced that all my work would disappear without trace if I pressed the wrong button. I could not have been more wrong.\nThough far from being adroit, I did manage to learn the basic skills I needed - il was all so logical, easy and idiot-proof. And, like everything that you persevere with, you learn a little more each day.\nI recently began freelancing for a magazine, contributing about two articles a month, and I have become smug in the knowledge that I have the best of two worlds.\nSo how has the computer helped me? Since my schooldays I have always worked at a desk that can only be described as a chaotic mess. \nConsequently, I was always losing scraps of paper containing vital bits of information. The computer has transformed me into an organised worker, particularly when it comes to office administration.\nSpreadsheets help keep a record of income and expenses, and pre-formatted invoices and letterheads have saved me a lol of time and effort. For a journalist, getting on-line with the Internet means I can research stories, ask for further information on the bulletin board in the journalism or publishing forums and even discuss the pros and cons of working from home with people from all over the world.\nIf all this sounds too good to be true, there is a dark side to computing from home. You can be in isolation from physical human contact. There are the distractions of putting urgent jobs about the house first, and when the children are home there are power struggles in our house over whose turn it is to use the computer.\nHowever, there is a growing band of people who have recently bought multi-media PCs, not just for the educational, leisure and entertainment facilities. In my street alone there appears to be a new type of technical cottage industry evolving from the sheer convenience of not having to join the commuter struggle into the city each day. So what characterises home workers as we move into the next century?\nA report entitled PC Usage in UK Homes provides the following profile of the millennium computer user: 38 and well educated; 93% own a personal computer and 32% have a CD-ROM device; 38% have a laser printer and 50% a modem.\nTaking this into account, I seem to be well ahead of schedule. And who knows, one day I might be e-mailing a column to a newspaper in Melbourne or, better still, publishing my own magazine from home. It seems the sky, or should I say cyberspace is the limit.", 'label': '4'}
{'text': "We changed lives for a day!\n\nHave you ever dreamed about swapping lives with someone else for a day? Perhaps you think it would be more fun to do something quite different for a change? We fixed it for four people - read how it went.\nAmanda (23), a young mother with two daughters, swapped lives with her friend Cindy (30), who works as a waitress at a glitzy London restaurant and entertainment complex.\n\nA. Amanda's story\n\nI'd never been inside anywhere remotely like it before. I couldn't believe how dark and noisy it was - there were so many people and such a brilliant atmosphere. It was all a far cry from my home town and, to he honest, I wasn't sure I'd survive! Being a mother is definitely a busy job - but this was something else!\nI had just fifteen minutes to learn how to carry a tray of drinks at shoulder height with one hand. The other waitresses made it look so simple, but just as I was getting the hang of it, the drinks started to slide off the tray and crashed on to the floor, splattering cocktails everywhere. I was so embarrassed, but all the other waitresses laughed. Everyone makes a fool of themselves at first!\nBy opening time at 11.30 am, a queue had already formed outside and I began to feel really nervous. I was worried about how I'd remember all the orders, but that, at least, wasn't a problem because everything was automated.\nAfter a couple of hours my feet really ached and I couldn't get used to the constant loud music. Every time a customer spoke to me I had to say 'Pardon?', which was so embarrassing! By the end of my shift at 5 pm, I was totally exhausted and longed to soak my feet in a bowl of hot water. I couldn't believe it when one of the waitresses told me it had been a 'quiet' day!\nI never realised how tiring waitressing would be. I've always thought it was a job for shrinking violets, but in fact you definitely need to be quite bubbly, as well having the ability to keep a cool head and deal with what is known in the trade as a 'high-volume experience' - in other words, lots of customers!\nI'm really quite shy and I don't think I could cope on a Saturday night, when it gets chaotically busy. I wasn't too impressed with the pay either. Unfortunately, I must have been a lousy waitress because even the rich Americans didn't tip me a bean!\nI must admit I was very glad to get back to my children. It seems quite easy after waitressing!\n\nB. Cindy's story\n\nI was feeling quite apprehensive about being a 'mum' for the day, but I was looking forward to it, too. I'd been warned the girls were cheeky, but in my ignorance I thought I could handle it. Little did I know!\nAs Amanda left to make her way to the restaurant, I had to get the two girls dressed and fed. After dropping off Sophie at school and Katie at nursery I thought I'd have three hours of peace. Wrong! A note from Amanda reminded me that I still had to make the beds, clean the house and do the washing.\nAt 1 pm I picked up Katie, whizzed around the supermarket and then took her home for lunch. But it was when I brought Sophie home from school that the real trouble started. They turned the settee into a trampoline and played a game which involved screaming as loudly as they possibly could! I decided to take the laid-back approach, imagining they'd soon get worn out. Wrong again. I thought I had a fair amount of stamina, but they beat me, hands down!\nAfter much persuasion, I managed to get them into bed by about 8 pm, but then the fun and games started! How many glasses of water can a child drink, for heaven's sake? Of course, I realised it was just a ploy so they could come downstairs and watch television, but it was exhausting to spend all evening negotiating deals with them.\nI never realised how tiring it could be looking after two small children. You don't get a second to think about yourself - and the sheer sense of responsibility is overwhelming. Even so, I really enjoyed the day.\n\nRosemary (42) runs a dairy farm. She swapped with Hilary (30), a teacher at a primary school.\n\nC. Rosemary's story\n\nOn the farm, I have to get up at 5.30 am so sleeping in until 7 was pure luxury! But I dithered for ages about how to look. I could hardly turn up in overalls and boots, could I?\nLooking at a sea of faces -- about 400 pupils -- at assembly, I hoped I melted into the background and that my fresh complexion didn't make me stand out as being straight off the farm.\nAfter that it was time for a maths class. The children worked in small groups, using workcards graded according to difficulty - rather different from when I was at school and we had to recite tables in unison! Then I helped out with a nature project - identifying and feeding species of snails.\nBy lunchtime I was exhausted and looking forward to an hour's break, but the teachers only have about five minutes to eat their meal. There's so much to do before classes start again. I attended a staff meeting about reports and couldn't avoid getting roped in to help with athletics trials.\nAlter lunch there was a silent reading lesson (bliss!) and then a French lesson in the video room. This was great fun because all the children wanted to practise on me, which really showed up my rusty French.\nFinally we moved on to the school hall for Physical Education. I was drained by now, but the children seemed to have inexhaustible energy.\nThe hardest part of the job was standing up in front of the class and speaking - even for just two minutes, it's daunting. Teachers may get more holidays a year, but I think I'll stick to farming, anyway!\n\nD. Hilary's story\n\nI arrived at White House Farm at 8.30 am, bright and early, only to discover that Rosemary had been up for three hours! Rosemary's 280-acre farm has 100 Jersey cows, 15 calves and heifers and about 800 ewes! As well as milk, she manufactures ice-cream, yoghurt and cream, which is sold in shops, restaurants and at tourist attractions. I spent most of the morning in the ice-cream parlour, bottling milk into plastic litre containers, squeezing ice-cream from a machine into cartons and sticking on labels. It was difficult to stop myself dipping my fingers into the goodies! At lunchtime it was time to inspect the sheep. I drove over to one of the fields and picked up a ewe which had fallen over. If the sheep are left for more than 12 hours once they have fallen over they could die, so they have to he checked every day. What a nightmare it must be in winter!\nAlter feeding the calves, I started the milking. The process took an exhausting two-and-a-half hours. And Rosemary does this twice a day, starting at 6 am, seven days a week, 365 days a year!\nI found it quite a lonely day. I was surprised how much I missed the children - animals don't answer back! The worst aspect of the job is not being able to get away from work. The cows always have to be milked twice a day, so it's really difficult to plan any time off. Rosemary will only get about three days' holiday this year.\nFarming seems romantic but the reality is very different. The income is irregular and I'd hate to be at the mercy of the weather.", 'label': '4'}
{'text': "The Cabinet-Maker\nCharles Hurst makes a living from perfectly crafted furniture Joanna Watt meets him\nCharles Hurst gives the impression of being a man in a hurry. I arrive at his workshop, tucked under a railway arch in East London, and am greeted with a quick handshake and the words: 'Well, fire away then!' Whether this brusqueness is real or a front hiding a shy streak is not immediately apparent. But a glance around the workshop reveals that Hurst is obviously busy, with good reason not to waste a minute of his time.\nThe arched space is full of half-made pieces of furniture and planks of wood in an amazing array of natural colours. Hurst has been a cabinet-maker for ten years and has built up a very nice reputation for himself. His order book is always full for several months in advance, despite the fact that he does not really promote himself. Word has spread that if you want a decent cupboard or table, bookcase or kitchen units, Hurst is your man.\nOf course, finding a furniture-maker is not that taxing a task. Wherever you live in the countryside, the craft is alive and well. But finding a cabinet- maker who prides himself on making beautifully crafted furniture with clean, simple lines is less easy. 'There are few real cabinet-makers now. People call themselves furniture-makers,' Hurst says wearily. As a craftsman who sets himself exacting standards, he is continually disappointed by some contemporary furniture. 'I am amazed by what some furniture-makers get away with, and saddened by what people will put up with.' He rails against shoddy, mass-produced furniture, and craftsmen who churn out second-rate pieces.\nSuch a quest for perfection is obviously a key to Hurst's success. That and his talent. This man is not coy about his ability. Indeed, his blatant self- confidence is as surprising as his initial brusque manner. 'I have a huge natural ability,' he says, with a deadpan expression. 'I have always been good at making things.' If it were not for the self-deprecating mood into which he slipped towards the end of our interview, I would have believed his conceit to be wholly genuine.\nHurst is self-taught. So how did he learn his craft? 'I asked the right questions and picked it all up,' he says nonchalantly. Almost all of his commissions come from private individuals ('l used to do some commercial work for companies but it was soul-destroying'). Some clients have returned time and again. 'You end up doing the whole of their house. That is very satisfying.' But he is honest enough to admit that relationships with clients do not always run smoothly. 'The most infuriating clients are those who don't know what they want, and then decide they do when it's too late ... my favourite clients are the exacting ones.'\nIf Hurst has every reason to be pleased with himself, he is also gracious in his praise for others - where it is due. With a sudden shot of modesty, he says: 'There are people far better than me. I can admire other people. After all, I wasn't trained at Parnham' (the leading college of furniture design). However, he is also unremittingly critical of those craftsmen who 'are trying to be artists and take a year to make one piece.' He also has little time for degree shows, in which students exhibit their work but at the same time are 'trying to make fashion statements. That can be pretentious. A piece of furniture is not about making a statement. It has to be something that people really can use.'\nConfident Hurst may be, even brusque, but you could never call him or his work pretentious. Indeed, his parting shot displays a welcome down- to-earth approach to his craft and a streak of humility strangely at odds with his earlier self- confidence. 'After all, I am only making furniture,' he says as I make my exit.", 'label': '4'}
{'text': 'The camera never lies \n\nArthur Conan Doyle, creator of the Sherlock Holmes stories, believed himself to be a rational man, a scientist even. But in 1920, when he saw photographs of fairies taken in a garden setting, he thought he was seeing scientific proof that these tiny creatures really existed. He published the photographs alongside an article he wrote, acknowledging fairies as supernatural wonders. It was not until 1939 that the two ladies who took the photos admitted these were fake. They simply cut out pictures of fairies from a book and arranged them among flowers. The results are undeniably beautiful. But the simplicity of the trick undermines a basic principle of photography, that the camera cannot lie. \nBut it can, and always could. Today, we are used to computer software enabling us to rework our digital images and it is a myth that photography ever had a true age of innocence. From the moment cameras began capturing reality, that reality was being altered. ', 'label': '4'}
{'text': "Ancient Chinese medicine in the West?\n\nAcupuncture is two thousand years old. It comes from the traditional Chinese system of medicine that includes herbalism, massage, diet, manipulation and exercise. It is used to treat many different conditions, but acupuncture's role in treating pain has received most attention by doctors in the West. Some GPs, midwives and physios use it regularly for pain relief.\n\nA. What's it all about? \n\nTraditional Chinese medicine sees health as a state in which the energy of the mind, body and spirit are in harmony. According to the theory, energy or Qi (pronounced chee) flows around the body along lines called meridians. There are twelve main meridians, each linked to an internal organ, and lots of tiny meridians take Qi to every cell. When the flow of Oi is upset, blocked or weakened, the body is said to be out of balance: weakness or illness may result. During a consultation with a traditional acupuncturist, he or she will try to find where imbalances occur in the Qi. This is done by feeling pulses on your wrist, examining your tongue and assessing your general appearance. He or she will ask about your medical history, current health, general well-being, state of mind, and your eating and sleeping habits. An acupuncturist uses fine needles inserted into the skin. He or she may also apply warmth from smouldering herbs or pressure at points on meridians, to stimulate the flow of Qi.\n\nB. Over three hundred points\n \nThe points used for acupuncture are related to meridians so won't necessarily be near the site of the complaint. People often say they feel a not unpleasant dull ache or tingling sensation when the needle is gently manipulated. This is either done by hand or by attaching the needle to an electro-acupuncture machine. Acupuncturists say this sensation shows the needle has reached the Qi in a meridian.\nThere are over three hundred points on the main meridians, with hundreds more elsewhere that are used less often.\n\nC. Science tells us how\n\nWithout accepting the principles of traditional Chinese medicine, doctors here have accepted that acupuncture can work for pain relief. This is because they have been able to provide scientific explanations of how it might work. For example: \n* It has been suggested that stimulating particular nerves blocks pain signals and stops them from reaching the brain.\n* Some scientists believe that stimulating acupuncture points releases natural pain-relieving substances (endorphins).\n\nD. What type of pain can be treated?\n\nMany people with chronic long-term pain turn to acupuncture as a last resort. Back pain, spots injuries, arthritis, headaches and migraine and post-operative pain are commonly treated with acupuncture.\nOther types of pain which acupuncturists claim to treat include menstrual pain, facial nerve pain and pain suffered by terminally ill people.\n\nE. Modern use for an ancient treatment\n\nAlthough acupuncture has been used in China for over 2,000 years, one development has been rather more recent. The use of acupuncture instead of anaesthesia during surgery only started in the 1950s. It was this that helped to convince some doctors outside China that there was more to acupuncture than mind over matter.\nIn China today, acupuncture is used during all sorts of operations, from tonsillectomies to caesareans, and is even used in open heart surgery. Needles may be used alone, with electrical stimulation or with drugs. It's claimed that the pain is more or less eliminated, but it varies from person to person. It's hard to imagine many of us finding the option of lying awake on the operating table very attractive. But acupuncturists say that acupuncture anaesthesia involves none of the side-effects of conventional anaesthetics (e.g. nausea), and you recover from it more quickly.\n\nF. Always effective\n\nAs with most complementary therapies, clinical trials to evaluate acupuncture are difficult to run. But trials that have been done have shown that 50 to 80 per cent of people find acupuncture effective for chronic pain. Acupuncturists generally quote a similar success rate. They accept that it won't work for everyone and that people vary in their responsiveness.\nTraditional acupuncturists say that for chronic long-term pain it will usually take between six and seven visits for people to feel real relief. But some improvement should be felt after just two or three visits.\n\nG. A different approach to pain\n\nBut Western and Chinese medicine view pain rather differently. Like most alternative therapists, an acupuncturist views his or her patient in a holistic way. This means not just focusing on specific symptoms. An acupuncturist spends a long time making a diagnosis, trying to find underlying weaknesses in the Oi. He or she will also want to know what external factors are causing the pain. For instance, is the pain worse in the cold, heat, damp or wind? Does it feel sharp, dull, throbbing, constant or burning? These are seen as important factors in deciding how acupuncture can be used to treat the pain. It's unlikely that your average medical doctor would take such things into account, isn't it?\n\nH. Traditional or not?\n\nSome medical professionals do have traditional acupuncture training. Others - including many GPs who practise acupuncture reject traditional Chinese theory and subscribe to scientific explanations.\nBut many traditional acupuncturists believe that only by applying traditional Chinese medicine is it possible to bring about deep changes that lead to a longer cure - something that is very difficult to assess in trials.\nCare should always be taken in choosing an acupuncturist, who should refer you to a medical doctor for funner investigation if necessary.", 'label': '4'}
{'text': "Margaret and her liquid assets\nMargaret Wilkins is said to have a 'sixth sense'. She can hold a forked hazel rod above the ground and detect water. She is increasingly in demand by farmers whose wells have dried up.\nTogether with her husband, Margaret Wilkins runs a well-drilling business, using technology such as drilling rigs and air-compressed hammers. But when it comes to locating water, she needs nothing more than a forked hazel stick. The couple's success rate is higher than 90 per cent. Dowsing - the ability to locate water, minerals and lost objects underground - is a so-called 'sixth sense'. There are many theories about how it is done, ranging from the physical, such as magnetism, to the spiritual. One of the most credible is based on the knowledge that everything on this planet vibrates, water more than other matter. It is suggested that dowsers have an acute ability to sense vibrations while standing on the Earth's surface; some dowsers say that they can 'sense' water, others that they can smell it, smell being the most acute sense.\nFor the Wilkins, the drought years of recent times have been busy, with an almost six-week-long waiting list at one stage. Most of Margaret's customers are farmers with wells that have dried up: 'We will see customers only once in a lifetime because wells last for a long time.' Other customers own remote cottages or barns, now holiday homes, where the expense of running water pipes for great distances is prohibitive. Others are golf-course developers with clubhouse facilities to build.\nMargaret tries to locate water between 50 and 70 metres down. 'You can't drill a well where there is the slightest risk of farm or other waste getting into the water supply. The water we locate is running in fissures of impervious rock and, as long as we bring the water straight up, it should give a good clean supply, though Cornwall is rich in minerals so you have to watch out for iron.'\nAnother necessity is electricity to drive the pump; this is too expensive to run across miles of fields so ideally the well should be near to existing power supplies.\nAfter considering all this, Margaret can start to look for water. On large areas, such as golf courses, she begins with a map of the area and a pendulum. 'I hold the pendulum still and gently move it over the map. It will swing when it is suspended over an area where there is water.'\nAfter the map has indicated likely areas, Margaret walks over the fields with a hazel stick, forked and equal in length and width each side. 'Once I'm above water I get a peculiar feeling; I reel slightly. When it subsides I use the stick to locate the exact spot where we should drill.' Gripping the two forks of the stick with both hands, she eases them outwards slightly to give tension. 'When water is immediately below, the straight part of the stick rises up. It's vital to drill exactly where the stick says. A fraction the wrong way, and you can miss the waterline altogether. My husband will dowse the same area as me; usually, not always, we agree on the precise place to drill. If we disagree, we won't drill and will keep looking until we do agree.'\nMargaret Wilkins is not in isolation, carrying out some curious old tradition down in the west of England. Anthropologists and writers have long been fascinated by this inexplicable intuition. Margaret calls it an 'intuitive perception of the environment' and that is the closest we can get to understanding why she locates water so accurately. If she did not have this 'sixth sense', how else could the family live off their well-drilling business year after year?\n", 'label': '4'}
{'text': 'Beginner Takes All\nEven before it was published, The Horse Whisperer was the hottest book of the year. A first novel by British screenwriter Nicholas Evans, it has earned its author record-breaking sums. He talks here about his inspiration and his triumph\nThe first months of the year were not kind to Nicholas Evans, screenwriter, producer and aspiring director. The year began badly when Life and Limb, a film project he had been working on for months, fell through \'almost overnight\'. His disappointment mingled with stomach-churning worry: it had been two years since he had earned any money and the promise of that film had been the only buffer between him and an increasingly irate bank manager.\nA wise man, finding himself in Evans\' position, would have got a job. He could have gone back to being a television executive, or begun a television project that had been on hold. Instead, he made a decision that most people, Evans included, would consider insane. He bought a ticket to America and set off for three months to research his first novel.\nAlthough he was acting very much on impulse, the seeds for the story had been with him for some time, sown by a farrier he met on Dartmoor while staying with a friend. The farrier had told him the story of a docile horse that had turned, no one knew why, into a fiend. Its owners were desperate until they heard of a gypsy who, simply by talking to the animal, transformed its temperament in a matter of hours. Such men, the farrier said, were known as \'horse whisperers\'.\nEvans\' imagination was captured. He began researching the subject with a view to writing a screenplay - he was, after all, a film-maker. But disillusionment with the film world following the demise of Life and Limb prompted him to write the story as a book. And so throughout the spring he drove across the US, stopping at ranches and learning about horses and the men who work with them.\n\'It was a funny time,\' he says now. \'I was observing people, but essentially [ was alone and I really felt as though my life was falling apart. [\'d tried for ten years to make a go of it as a film-maker, and here 1was, hugely in debt and wondering how [ was going to feed the children, and thinking maybe it was all just folly.\'\nHe thought that again towards the end of August, by which time he had returned home and written the first half of the book. \'At that point the bank manager was getting really very heavy with us, and I needed to know whether it was worth going on. I plucked up the courage to show it to a friend who was a literary agent; he read it and said it was "fine".\'\nWhen pushed, he ventured that Evans might get $30,000 as an advance on the book. \'I had in mind how much 1 needed to payoff a bit of the overdraft and keep us going, and it was more than that. [\'d spent seven months on The Horse Whisperer, and there were at least another two to go. $30,000 was a really difficult figure. I was also advised to write a 12-page synopsis of the remainder of the book.\'\nIn October. together with the first two hundred pages of the novel. this was sent to seven UK publishers on the eve of their departure for the annual spending spree at the internationally renowned Frankfurt Book Fair. Within days his agent was on the telephone to report that he had just turned down the first offer of $75,000. \'I said, "You what?" And he said, "It\'s OK, I just sense something is happening". \'\nThe events that followed have become publishing history. Within a week - a week of hotly contested auctions - the novel had been sold to Transworld Publications in the UK for 5550,000 and to Delacorte in the US for 53.I5 million, both record-breaking advances for a first novel.\n\'We couldn\'t believe it; we sat there with our jaws gaping. W e\'d never sent the manuscript to New York, we still don\'t know how it got there,\' Evans says. Nor did they send it to Hollywood, but within that same week the major studios were fighting over it. \'My agent in the UK wisely involved an agent over there and when he phoned us to say, "I think we can get $3 million outright," we laughed in disbelief.\'\nAs they all agreed to this sum, it was decided that they should each \'pitch\' to Evans. And so, one night in October, he sat in his study while four great film-makers rang, one after the other, to beg for the privilege of paying 53 million for an unfinished novel. Evans told me all this as we sat drinking coffee on a wooden verandah perched above the leafy garden of his home. He said that he had since turned down an offer to write the screenplay of Tile Horse Whisperer.\n\'It\'s all been such a fairy tale so far. I don\'t want to spoil it. Writing at that level is a very tough business, and I don\'t want to become an employee of these people who I like and who have paid me so much money. I\'d hate to find myself writing a draft or two and then have them say, "Thanks Nick, but now we\'ll bring in so-and-so". \'\nHe would be involved, he said, but at arm\'s length. The success of his novel had inevitably brought forth the offer of new backing for Life and Limb, but he was no longer sure that he wanted to make it. \'I think that I would be foolish not to write another novel,\' he said.', 'label': '4'}
{'text': 'The long-distance runner\n\nRichard Nerurkar, one of Britain\'s top 10,000-metre runners, visits the Kenyans\' high-altitude training camp.\n\nTen miles south of the equator, a sony mountain track leads off the quiet metalled road from Nairobi. The track marks the start of the trek up Kenya\'s highest peak, the glacier-capped Mount Kenya. This gorgeous, if lonely and isolated, spot is Nanyuk: for the past three years it has been my base for mid-winter altitude training in Kenya\'s Central Highlands.\nBut not once on those trips had I trained with Kenyan runners on their home soil. On my fourth and most recent winter training trip to Kenya, however, I broke a personal tradition. I both competed in my first-ever race in Kenya\'s oxygen-thin air and stayed at Kenya\'s national team training camp, which is where the country\'s top runners prepare for their annual assault on the World Cross-Country Team Championships.\nI was invited by Kenya\'s national team coach when I finished fifth - behind three Kenyans and a Moroccan - in the World Championship 1O,000 meters race. It was an opponunity not to be missed. Training at high altitude produces more red blood cells, which improves oxygen-carrying capacity.\nThese benefits have been borne out by the successes of generations of Kenyan runners.\nMy first African race - which came before my spell at the Kenyan team training camp - was also a first for the whole continent. Held in Nairobi, it was the first-ever international cross-country race to be held on African soil.\nIf nothing else, it was a humbling experience. Of the 41 runners who finished ahead of me, all but 3 were Kenyan. And I honestly felt I hadn\'t had a bad race!\nHowever, I don\'t believe Kenyan success can entirely be put down to the altitude factor. Kenyan runners are also noted for their refreshingly uncomplicated approach to the sport. While their running style is seemingly effortless, their diet simple and their manner of conversation relaxed, they also seem to love competing.\nBut the least discussed aspect of the puzzle of Kenyan success was perhaps the most basic: how do they train? My stay with the Kenyan runners at their team training camp soon provided the answers.\nThe national team training camp is at St Mark\'s College, 6,200 feet up the southern slope of Mt Kenya, surrounded by beautiful playing fields and dense tropical vegetation.\nIt\'s a fairly basic affair, though: there are few comforts. The athletes live among the college\'s regular students and are housed six to a room in cinder-block dormitories.\nThe athletes\' days at the camp are dominated by three work-outs: a leisurely early-morning run, interval training at mid-morning, followed by a steady run in the late afternoon. The daily regime began at six. We crawled from our bunks and assembled to be briefed by the coaches for the morning run.\n"Run easy, you have a hard job today", we were warned as we left by the coach who\'d invited me.\nThe total distance covered each day was about 40 kilometres - a little short of a marathon distance. The only exception was Sunday, with just the one scheduled run of 20 kilometres, which certainly came as a welcome respite from the rest of the week\'s three daily work-outs.\nRunning apart, life was complication-free. A splash of water on the face and a brush of the teeth sufficed for pre-breakfast preparations. Breakfast itself consisted of tea, bread and boiled eggs, taken in a sparsely-lit, small dining area.\nLunch and dinner both had a similar menu: ugali (a maize dish), stew, cabbage or spinach and tea. When the day\'s running was over, in the early evening, we would pile into a car and drive down to bathe properly in one of the many streams that run off from Mt Kenya\'s shrinking glaciers.\nBy the time I left the camp, I was even more appreciative of Kenyan success. That success just can\'t be attributed to genetics or upbringing or altitude alone.\nI couldn\'t stop myself pondering upon a rather different explanation: that the purity and simplicity of the mountainside lifestyle, these gruelling work-outs and this passion for success, perhaps these are the secrets, perhaps these are the real reasons behind Kenya\'s rise to the top of world distance running.', 'label': '4'}
{'text': "DO REVIEWS SELL BOOKS?\n\nWe asked five leading British publishers about the effect of the reviews of a book on its commercial success. Here is what they said.\n\nPublisher A\n\nReviews are absolutely key for publishers - the first part of the newspaper we turn to. The Book Marketing Council found some years ago that when questioned on why they had bought a particular hook, more people cited reviews than any other prompting influence (advertisements, word of mouth, bookshop display, etc.).\nAuthors' responses to reviews are slightly different from publishers. Both are devastated by no reviews, but publishers are usually more equable about the had reviews, judging that column inches are what matter and that a combination of denunciation and ecstatic praise can actually create sales as readers decide to judge for themselves.\nPublishers probably get the most pleasure from a review which precisely echoes their own response to a book - they are often the first 'reader'.\n\nPublisher B\n\nWhile publishers and the press fairly obviously have a common interest in the nature of book review pages, one also needs to remember that their requirements substantially differ: a newspaper or magazine needs to provide its readers with appropriately entertaining material; a publishing house wants to see books, preferably its own, reviewed, preferably favourably.\nWithout any question, book reviewing is 'better' -- more diverse, less elitist -- than 40 years ago, when I began reading review pages. That said, there is still a long-grumbled-about tendency to neglect the book medium read by a majority -- namely paperbacks. The weekly roundups aren't really adequate even if conscientiously done. And even original paperbacks only rarely receive serious coverage.\nBut publishers shouldn't complain too much. Like readers and writers, they need reviews, which after all are an economical way of getting a book and an author known. There is no question that a lively account of a new book by a trusted name can generate sales even more if there are several of them. Fame is what puts a book into the hands of readers.\n\nPublisher C\n\nReviews are the oxygen of literary publishing; without them, we would be cut off from an essential life-source. Because the books we publish are generally not by 'brand-name' authors, whose books sell with or without reviews, and because we seldom advertise, we depend on the space given to our books by literary editors.\nWhen the reviews are favourable, of course, they are worth infinitely more than any advertisement. The reader knows that the good review is not influenced by the publisher's marketing budget: it is the voice of reason, and there is no doubt that it helps to sell books. Publishers themselves often claim that they look for size rather than content in reviews.\nThe actual effect of reviews on sales is the inscrutable heart of the whole business. Good reviews can launch a book and a career and occasionally lift sales into the stratosphere: but never entirely on their own. There has to be some fusion with other elements -- a word-of-mouth network of recommendation, a robust response from the book trade, clever marketing.\n\nPublisher D\n\nThe relationship in Britain between publishing and reviewing? I wish I knew! In the United States it's simple: the New York Times can make or break a book with a single review. Here, though, the people in the bookshops often don't appear to take much notice of them.\nIt sometimes takes 20 years of consistently outstanding reviews for people to start reading a good writer's work. Yet some of the most dismally received books, or books not yet reviewed, are the biggest sellers of all. So it's all very unpredictable, though non-action is less so.\nMind you, non-fiction does allow reviewers to indulge themselves by telling us what they know about the subject of the book under review rather than about the book itself.\n\nPublisher E\n\nOf course, all publishers and all writers dream of long, uniformly laudatory reviews. But do they sell books? I once published a biography. The reviews were everything I could have craved. The book was a flop -- because everyone thought that, by reading the lengthy reviews, they need not buy the book.\nDoes the name of the reviewer make a difference? Thirty years ago, if certain reviewers praised a book, the public seemed to take note and obey their recommendations. These days, it is as much the choice of an unexpected reviewer, or the sheer power or wit or originality of the review, which urges the prospective buyer into the bookshop.", 'label': '4'}
{'text': "RETREAT, RELAX, RECHARGE\nHealth farms and country house hotels offering spa facilities report that business is booming. We asked five journalists to check out some of the places that are available.\n\nA. HENLOW GRANGE\n\nI welcomed the opportunity to go to Henlow Grange for six days as I was tired and needed to relax. My room in the main part of the huge 18th-century house was the most comfortable possible and I was instantly soothed.\nOn Day One I did nothing and slept lots. But from Day Two I started going to body conditioning and doing as many classes as I could (stretch and tone, yoga, body alignment, to name but a few). All the instructors are highly trained. I couldn't believe how supple I began to feel as the week progressed.\nThey have every possible treatment, including aromatherapy (I've never been so relaxed), seaweed baths, manicures, and pedicures. The facial, which lasts for an hour, really does make you feel like a new person.\nThe staff in the treatment rooms deserve a bouquet. T hey couldn't have been friendlier, nicer or more professional. The whole atmosphere is one of vitality and enthusiasm. Henlow are planning a major refurbishment this year, which will include a half-size Olympic swimming pool and a Light Diet Room. Bicycles are available and you can ride around the grounds. If you're not feeling energetic and the weather's on your side, grab a magazine or enjoy a peaceful walk in the garden.\nDuring my stay, my mood improved and so did my appetite. l left feeling wonderful and full of energy, which lasted for ages. I'm definitely due another visit. This is the perfect break for the stressed working woman. Save\nRoom 5 for me!\nMarcella D'Argy Smith\n\nB. SHRUBLAND HALL\n\nThe calm and relaxing atmosphere of this stately home was evident from the moment I climbed the vast staircase into the reception area. The Hall has an impressively decorated library, a charming conservatory and lots of space, so you don't have to speak to anyone if you don't want to.\nOn arrival everybody is given a medical, which includes an examination and a check on weight and blood pressure. We were all called patients, which I found a bit disquieting as I'm in good health. However, I was impressed that a shoulder problem discovered in the examination was immediately passed on to the fitness instructor and we worked on it in the group workshops and also in an extra session of individual instruction.\nEach patient is given a specific diet to follow. Although I lost weight without fasting, I was still hungry enough to develop a fierce headache on the second day. A typical daily menu for me was a breakfast of grapefruit and honey, hot lemon and boiled water; a choice of salads for lunch; and a mixture of exotic fruit, yoghurt and a flask of hot broth for supper. If you're not fasting or on a light diet, then you'll eat in the main dining hall, where the food is tasty and nicely presented, so you needn't suffer too much! You have a massage or water therapy on alternate days. All extra treatments are competitively priced.\nLiz Gregory\n\nC. CAREYS MANOR\n\nCareys is not a health farm and doesn't pretend to be. It's a fine old manor farm with inviting log fires and a spacious lounge. If you're counting calories, you'll have to miss out on the gourmet food. Rich sauces and delightful creamy confections are conjured up by the French chef. It's a good job the hotel has a fully-equipped gym and soft-water pool so I could work off some of the tempting indulgences. (You can opt for a 'health-conscious' diet if you really want to lose weight.) There is a spa bath, steam room, Swiss shower, sauna and treatment rooms. A big attraction is the sports injury clinic. I got an expert opinion on an old, sometimes painful, shoulder injury. The physiotherapist recommended good posture, remedial exercises and massage. Carey's manages to be comfortable and luxurious, laid-back and sedate. If you want to break out, there is great surrounding countryside to explore.\nBeverly D'Silva\n\nD. CLIVEDEN\n\nCliveden is a majestic country home and is also a five-star hotel that treats its guests like royalty. It offers health and beauty treatments, a well-equipped gym, saunas, swimming pool, tennis, horse riding, and much more. There are stunning woodland walks and gardens around the 376-acre National Trust estate.\nAnd there's Waldo's, a highly-acclaimed restaurant with dishes to make you clutch your stomach. In ecstasy. It took me half an hour to read the dinner menu; the choice was staggering. The meal was wonderful, especially the sticky-toffee pudding with banana ice-cream. I climbed into bed a happy woman!\nNext morning I dutifully spent a few hours in the gym playing with exercise equipment to burn off a few calories in time for my next meal. In the Pavilion I enjoyed a facial with gentle heat and essential oils. Then I had an aromatherapy massage. \nI thought of all the other reports my fellow journalists would make, about fitness assessments, workouts, and beauty treatments to tone and firm the body. Cliveden has all these if you want to use them -- before indulging yourself at Waldo's.\nKay Letch\n\nE. SPRINGS HYDRO\n\nThe best and the worst thing about Springs Hydro is the carrot cake. The best because it really is the most delicious I've ever tasted. The worst, because it's a huge slab of 360 calories, which sets you back if you want to lose weight. You have been warned! The second best thing is the fabulous aromatherapy massage. I chose the relaxing oils blend, dropped off to sleep twice during the massage, floated back to my room and had my most refreshing night's sleep in years.\nThe premises are modern and purpose-built, efficiently run, with up-to-the-minute facilities and luxurious bedrooms. There are plenty of therapists and beauty rooms so there's little difficulty in scheduling appointments. A variety of treatments are on offer, from manicures and pedicures to deep-cleansing facials and body treatments. The guests are an eclectic mix -- from entire football teams to mums and daughters, best friends and singles. Ideally, I would have a break here about once a month.\nEve Cameron", 'label': '4'}
{'text': "Solar Survivor\n\nCharles Clover ventures inside Britain's most environmentally-friendly home.\n\nSouthwell in Nottinghamshire is full of surprises. The first is Britain's least-known ancient cathedral, Southwell Minster, celebrated by writers of an environmental disposition for the pagan figures of 'green' men which medieval craftsmen carved into the decoration in its thirteenth-century chapter house. The second, appropriately enough, is Britain's greenest dwelling, the 'autonomous house', designed and built by Robert and Brenda Vale. \nThe Vales use rainwater for washing and drinking, recycle their sewage into garden compost and heat their house with waste heat from electrical appliances and their own body heat, together with that of their three teenage children and their two cats, Edison and Faraday. You could easily miss the traditional-looking house, roofed with clay pantiles, on a verdant corner plot 300 yards from the Minster. It was designed to echo the burnt-orange brick of the town's nineteenth-century buildings and won approval from the planners even though it is in a conservation area.\nRing the solar-powered doorbell and there is total silence. The house is super-insulated, with krypton-filled triple-glazed windows, which means that you do not hear a sound inside. Once inside and with your shoes off (at Robert's insistence), there is a monastic stillness. It is a sunny summer's day, the windows are closed and the conservatory is doing its normal job of warming the air before it ventilates the house. Vale apologises and moves through the house, opening ingenious ventilation shafts and windows. You need to create draughts because draught-proofing is everywhere: even Edison and Faraday have their own air-locked miniature door. \nThe Vales, who teach architecture at Nottingham University, were serious about the environment long before it hit the political agenda. They wrote a book on green architecture back in the 1970s, The Autonomous House. They began by designing a building which emitted no carbon dioxide. Then they got carried away and decided to do without mains water as well. They designed composting earth closets, lowered rainwater tanks into the cellar, and specified copper gutters to protect the drinking water, which they pass through two filters before use. Water from washing runs into the garden (the Vales don't have a dishwasher because they believe it is morally unacceptable to use strong detergents). Most details have a similar statement in mind. \n'We wanted people to see that it was possible to design a house which would be far less detrimental to the environment, without having to live in the dark,' says Robert. 'It would not be medieval.' The house's only medieval aspect is aesthetic: the hall, which includes the hearth and the staircase, rises the full height of the building.\nThe Vales pay no water bills. And last winter the house used only nine units of electricity a day costing about 70p -- which is roughly what other four bedroomed houses use on top of heating. Soon it will use even less, when PS20,000 worth of solar water heating panels and generating equipment arrive and are erected in the garden. The house will draw electricity from the mains supply for cooking and running the appliances, but will generate a surplus of electricity. There will even be enough, one day, to charge an electric car. The only heating is a small wood-burning stove in the hall, which the Vales claim not to use except in the very coldest winter.\nSo is it warm in winter? One night in February when I happened to call on him, Robert was sitting reading. It was too warm to light the fire, he said. The room temperature on the first floor was 18C, less than the generally expected temperature of living areas, but entirely comfortable, he claimed, because there are no draughts, no radiant heat loss, since everything you touch is at the same temperature. Perceived temperature depends on these factors. An Edwardian lady in the early years of the twentieth century was entirely comfortable at 12.5C, he says, because of the insulation provided by her clothing. Those people who live in pre-1900 housing, he suggests, should simply go back to living as people did then. Somehow, it is difficult to think of this idea catching on. \nThe house's secret is that it is low-tech and there is little to go wrong. Almost everything was obtained from a builder's merchant and installed by local craftsmen. This made the house cheap to build -- it cost the same price per square metre as low-cost housing for rent. Not surprisingly, the commercial building companies are determinedly resisting this idea.", 'label': '4'}
{'text': "THEATRE\n\nCHARLES SPENCER\n\nA. Tamburlaine the Great\n\nMarlowe's ten-act epic about the all-conquering warrior can seem never-ending, but it emerges as one of the most thrilling nights of the year in Terry Hands' staging. He has hacked great chunks from the text and offers a production that combines the glories of Marlowe's play with an exhilarating speed and physicality. Antony Sher is in terrific form in the title role, somersaulting from the balcony, sliding down a rope head-first as he delivers a speech, demanding and getting the audience's complete attention as his eyes glint with a mad lust for power and glory. Great stuff.\nSwan Theatre, Stratford-upon-Avon (01789 295623)\n\nB. Women Laughing\n\nWelcome London transfer for the late Michael Wall's fine play, seen at the Manchester Royal Exchange in May. The first act creates an atmosphere of unsettling menace as two married couples chat on a sunny suburban lawn. In the second half the location shifts and the piece becomes a powerful, compassionate study of the devastating effects of illness. The British theatre lost a talent of great promise when Wall died at the tragically early age of 44.\nRoyal Court Theatre, London SW1 (0207 730 1745)\n\nC. Amphibians\n\nBilly Roche is the latest in the long line of Irish dramatists to have enriched the English stage. All his plays to date have been set in his native Wexford, and this latest piece explores the decline of the fishing industry with his usual mixture of rich characterisation, painful emotion and sudden moments of quirky humour. The play sprawls a bit aimlessly at times, but builds to a blistering climax.\nBarbican 3 Pit Theatre, London EC2 (0207 638 8891)\n\nD. Murder by Misadventure\n\nTraditional thriller involving our old friend, 'the perfect murder'. This time it is Gerald Harper and William Gaunt who play the crime-writing partnership intent on killing each other, and though its all rather familiar stuff; the twists and turns are handled with ingenuity.\nWhitehall Theatre, London SW1 (0207 867 1119)\n\nE. The Alchemist\n\nYoung director Sam Mendes finds the gold in Jonson's great comedy of 17th-century confidence tricksters. First seen at the Swan in Stratford last year, the show works just as well on the Barbican's main stage, with Jonathan Hyde, David Bradley and Joanne Pearce repeating their fine performances as the wicked trio of con-artists.\nBarbican Theatre, London EC2 (0207 638 8891)\n\nF. The Madras House\n\nPeter James' production of Harley Granville Barkers rich, panoramic comedy about fashion and the position of women in Edwardian society transfers to London after its success at the Edinburgh Festival. The staging is stylish, the acting excellent, the play itself an unjustly neglected classic.\nLyric Theatre, Hammersmith, London W6 (0208 741 2311)\n\nG. Dreams from a summer house\n\nThis delightful new musical finds playwright Alan Ayckbourn in unusually benign form as he relocates the Beauty and the Beast story deep in the heart of London suburbia. A lush score by John Pattison and an unashamedly schmaltzy celebration of romantic love combine to make this good-hearted show a real winner. London impresarios looking for a hit should board the next train to Scarborough.\nStephen Joseph Theatre, Scarborough (01 723 370541)\n\nH. The Merry Wives of Windsor\n\nDavid Thacker's lacklustre production of Shakespeare's most farcical comedy came perilously close to being awarded the dreaded thumbs-down symbol, but this disappointing, crudely designed show is redeemed by first-rate comic performances from Ron Cook as the French physician Dr Caius and Anton Lesser as the explosively jealous husband, Ford. Almost everyone else looks faintly embarrassed, as well they might.\nShakespeare Theatre, Stragford-upon-Avon (01789 295623)\n\nI. The Voysey Inheritance\n\nAnother major Granville Barker revival, now touring the regions. This story of an apparently respectable solicitor who bequeaths a corrupt financial legacy to his son results in a marvellous play.\nApollo Theatre, Oxford (01865 244544)", 'label': '4'}
{'text': "A. The University Museum of Classical Archaeology\n\nThe Museum of Classical Archaeology is one of the few surviving collections of casts of Greek and Roman sculpture in the world, comprising over six hundred works. The first thing to remember about the collection is that nothing here is genuine. All the sculptures are accurate replicas cast from the originals, mostly in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. The Museum is housed in a purpose-built gallery with excellent natural light. The advantages of plaster casts are many: groups of sculptures originally set up together but now split between various museums all over Europe can be viewed together as originally intended. Nearly all the most celebrated works of Greek and Roman sculpture can be viewed in one afternoon.\n\nB. Cambridge Darkroom\n\nCambridge Darkroom is a centre for photography with community darkrooms and a gallery showing a varied exhibition of photography and related media. We regularly run courses and workshops for people of all ages and abilities, including our popular Beginner's Course, a shorter Induction Course and Master Classes with invited photographers. We have a membership scheme whereby all our members can use our darkrooms. We also encourage young photographers (aged 12 to 16) to develop their skills with our Young Members scheme, led by our resident photographer. We stock photographic books and an magazines and carry a full range of photographic materials.\n\nC. Sedgwick Museum of Geology\n\nThe Sedgwick Museum houses a magnificent collection of fossil animals and plants, rocks and minerals of all geological ages, and from all parts of the world. It also houses Britain's oldest intact geological collection, that of Dr John Woodward (1665-1728). It includes nearly 10,000 rare and interesting specimens stored in their original early 18th century cabinets. Adam Sedgwick was Professor of Geology and keeper of the Woodwardian collection. Throughout his long life, he added enormously to the collections, laying the foundations of a truly outstanding museum. The collection is arranged by geological age so that the major changes in life on Earth can be traced through time.\nThe new Whewell Gallery houses the beautiful minerals and gems of the collection. The displays are accompanied by full explanatory labels to explain both their nature and modern use.\n\nD. The Cambridge University Collection of Air Photographs\n\nThere are over 400,000 oblique and vertical air photographs in the collection, taken by members of the university's staff over the past 45 years. The University has its own aircraft based at Cambridge Airport and undertakes photographic work throughout Great Britain. The photographs are of considerable general interest as a detailed, year-by-year record of the landscape, showing both the natural environment and the effects of human activity from prehistoric times to the present day. There is a small display in the entrance hall and the knowledgeable library staff will be happy to deal with canicular enquiries. The photographs cannot be borrowed but copies can normally be purchased. These are made to order and ordinarily take about a month.\n\nE. Cambridge Medieval Brass Rubbing Centre\n\nCambridge Brass Rubbing Centre, the second oldest and longest surviving centre in the world, is one of the regions most unusual tourist attractions. Hours of enjoyment are to be had creating wall hangings by rubbing one of over a hundred different brass plates off tombs of medieval knights and ladies. By formulating resin copies, known as facsimiles, the centre has made it possible to preserve the originals and still make brass rubbing an accessible pastime to all. The brass plates, as an alternative means of memorial to the tomb statue, spread from Germany across medieval Europe and Scandinavia. Through various revolutions most of the beautiful brasses were destroyed. The vast majority of remaining brasses are to be found in Britain and the widest range of examples can be seen at the Cambridge Centre.", 'label': '4'}
{'text': 'Great sports\n\nWomen on a winning streak\n\nTo excel in any sport is hard enough, even far men, but women have to be twice as tough. Training and competition leave little time for a normal life, so sacrifices must be made. But against all the odds they are beating prejudice and breaking records. Here, we talk to just a haw brilliant British sportswomen who are achieving their goals.\n\nA. Jill, 27, skier\n\n"It\'s a great feeling to fly through the air and land cleanly, but it can be scary. Sometimes you don\'t feel well or it\'s windy and you can\'t see, but you just get on with it. It\'s not easy to have a career outside skiing because we train for ten months of the year. You give up a lot of your social life and friends. But it was my choice. There are six men and three women in the British team. We all compete on the same courses at the same competitions and get treated the same - it\'s a young sport."\n\nB. Caroline, 22, cyclist\n\n"Two years ago I borrowed a bike to take part in a charity race. I won overall just because I cycled faster than everyone else, which was amazing because I\'d never cycled before! I\'m well paid as a pro, and cycling has lots of potential in terms of endorsements. However, I know I\'m not ugly and it worries me that people may think I\'ve got where I am because of how I look, not because I\'m the best cyclist. So I tend to concentrate on the cycling at the moment, rather than earning money I do at least four hours\' training every day on the bike, plus some stretching exercises, swimming and running.\nMy boyfriend\'s a cyclist as well, so he knows the time you have to put into it -- it would be impossible otherwise."\n\nC. Annabel, 26, rower\n\n"Rowing is hard for girls to get into because very few girls\' schools do it. So most don\'t start till they\'re 19 or 20 which makes it harder to succeed at an international level. Also, you usually have coaches who only stay a year or so. There\'s no continuity so the women\'s squad is basically a shambles. But it\'s great fun and I love being fit, plus there\'s a good social life."\n\nD. Ffyona, 24, long distance walker\n\n"At 13 I dreamed of walking around the world -- I didn\'t know just how big it was then! But Britain was too claustrophobic, too safe. I was very headstrong; I hated anyone having control over me. Now I am more tactful. Each walk has been different.\nThe walk across Australia was the worst experience I\'ve ever had as far as pain is concerned. I was doing 50 miles and 21 hours each day with three hours sleep in high temperatures and walking with 15 blisters on each foot. But I got the record! I had to, because my sponsorship money was going to run out after 95 days. Men think that women are more likely to fail, so sponsoring them is always seen as a higher risk."\n\nE. Lisa, 26, saloon car racer\n\n"Some men have huge egos when they\'re driving - you see it on motorways. When I\'m doing well, they don\'t talk to me. Being a woman has its disadvantages.\nWhen I get to a corner, the men think \'I\'ve got to beat her\', so I\'ve had a lot of knocks!\nYou have to be naturally competitive and aggressive. It\'s very difficult to earn any money and what I do make goes back into the sport. Women have been racing since the twenties and have always been classed as eccentrics. It\'s great that there are now more and more women taking up racing every year. For me, the appeal of saloon car racing is aiming for perfection always trying to get round with a perfect lap."\n\nF. Alison, 28, triathlete\n\n"I get up at 5.30 three mornings a week to swim. I need Tuesday and Thursday mornings to catch up on my sleep. In the evening I just cycle or run. Yes, I do fall asleep at my desk sometimes! There is a lot of nervous build-up beforehand and when you\'re racing you really push yourself - you don\'t feel good if you don\'t. Several times I\'ve asked myself why I do it. The answer is a) I\'m happier when I keep fit, b) I\'m a slob at heart and if I didn\'t make myself do this I\'d really be one, c) racing is very social.\nMen and women usually compete together but when an event is given coverage in the press, 90 per cent of the article will explain the men\'s event and 10 per cent will say, \'Oh, by the way, so-and-so won the women\'s event\'. The prize money isn\'t as good either, of course. But now we\'ve formed an International Triathlon Women\'s Commission, so we\'re working on it."', 'label': '4'}
{'text': 'ECCENTRICS\n\nAn eccentric is by definition someone whose behaviour is abnormal, someone who refuses to conform to the accepted norms of his society. This, of course, immediately begs the question, "What is normal?" Most of us, after all, have our quirks and oddities. It may be a passion for entering newspaper competitions, a compulsion for collecting beer mats, a tendency to write indignant letters to the press on every conceivable subject. Eccentricity is the assertion of our individuality. Within most of us that urge is constantly in conflict with the contrary force. It is as though in the depths of our psyche we have two locomotives head-to-head on the same track, pushing against each other. One is called individualism and the other conformity and in most of us it is conformity that is the more powerful. The desire to be accepted, loved, appreciated, to feel at one with our fellows, is stronger than the desire to stand out in the crowd, to be our own man, to do our own thing.\nNotice, for example, how people who have unusual hobbies, strong opinions, or unconventional behaviour, tend to congregate. They form clubs, hold meetings, and organise rallies where they can get together and discuss their common enthusiasms or problems. The important word is \'common\'. They look for other people with whom they can share what in the normal run of events is regarded by relatives, friends and neighbours as an oddity. A crowd, even a small crowd, is reassuring.\nProbably all of us recognise a tension within ourselves between the two forces of individualism and conformity, for at the same time that most of us are going with the crowd, we tend to resent any suggestion that this is what we are doing. We feel a self-conscious need to assert our individuality as when the belligerent man at the bar informs his small audience, "Well, I say what I think." Or the wary stranger to whom we have just been introduced announces, "You must take me as you find me. I don\'t stand on ceremony."\nAny of us can, at any time, reverse this trend. We can stoke the boiler of individualism, assert our own personality. Many people have made it to the top in their chosen professions, basically by doing just that. One example is Bob Dylan, the American singer, who has gone on record as saying, "When you feel in your gut what you are doing and then dynamically pursue it - don\'t back down and don\'t give up - then you\'re going to mystify a lot of folk. But that self-conscious assertion of individuality is not eccentricity, at least not in the early stages. When a pop singer deliberately wears bizarre clothes to gain publicity, or a society hostess makes outrageous comments about her guests in order to get herself noticed in the gossip columns, that is not eccentricity. However, if the pop star and the society hostess perpetuate such activities until they become a part of themselves, until they are no longer able to return to what most of us consider \'normal behaviour\', then they certainly would qualify. For the most important ingredient of eccentricity is its naturalness. Eccentrics are not people who deliberately try to be odd, they simply are odd.\nThe true eccentric is not merely indifferent to public opinion, he is scarcely conscious at all. He simply does what he does, because of who he is. And this marks the eccentric as essentially different from, for example, enthusiasts, practical jokers, brilliant criminals, exhibitionists and recluses. These people are all very conscious of the world around them. Much of what they do, they do in reaction to the world in which they live. Some wish to make an impression on society, some wish to escape from society, but all are very much aware of society. The eccentric alone goes on his merry way regardless.', 'label': '4'}
{'text': 'An awfully big adventure\n\nThe Taklamakan Desert in western China is one of the last unexplored places on earth. It is also one of the most dangerous. Charles Blackmore crossed it, and lived to tell the tale.\n\nThere are very few big adventures left and very few heroes. Children\'s stories used to specialise in them -- courageous explorers with sunburnt, leathery skin and eyes narrowed by straining to see into far horizons on their journeys into the unknown. These days you no longer find such people in fiction, let alone in real life. Or so I thought until I met Charles Blackmore.\nBlackmore\'s great adventure consisted of leading an expedition across one of the last unexplored places on earth, the Taklamakan Desert in western China. Its name means \'once entered you never come out\', but local people call it the Desert of Death. He recalled the dangers and exhilaration of that amazing trek, in the calm atmosphere of his family home.\nThe team he led was composed of four Britons (one of them the party\'s medical officer), an American photographer, four Chinese (all experts on the area), 30 camels and six camel handlers. It later turned out that the camel handlers had never worked with camels before, but were long-distance lorry drivers: a misunderstanding that could have cost everyone their lives and certainly jeopardised the expedition\'s success. This mixed bunch set out to cross 1,200 kilometres of the world\'s least hospitable desert and Charles Blackmore has written a mesmerising account of their journey. \nAt the time, he was about to leave the Army after 14 happy years. He launched the expedition for fun, to fill a gap in his life, to prove something. \'I had always assumed I\'d spend my whole life in the Army. I had been offered promotion but suddenly I felt I wanted to see who Charles Blackmore really was, outside all that. It was a tremendous gamble. Tina, my wife, was very worried that I wouldn\'t come back as nobody had ever done that route; we went into it blind. In the event, it took 59 days to cross from west to east, and the desert was very kind to us.\'\nAnyone reading his extraordinary account of that crossing will wonder at the use of the word \'kind\'. The team suffered unspeakable hardships: dysentery; extremes of temperature; severe thirst and dehydration; the loss of part of their precious water supply. \'But\', Blackmore explains, \'when we were at the limits of our own endurance and the camels had gone without water for seven days, we managed to find some. We didn\'t experience the Taklamakan\'s legendary sandstorms. And we never hit the raw, biting desert cold that would have totally immobilised us. That\'s not to say that we weren\'t fighting against hurdles the whole time. The fine sand got into everything, especially blisters and wounds. The high dunes were torture to climb, for us and for the heavily laden camels, which often rolled over onto us.\n\'What drove me on more than anything else was the need to survive. We had no contingency plan. Neither our budget no time allowed one. No aircraft ever flew over us. Once we got into the sandhills we were completely on our own.\n\'I knew I had the mental stamina for the trip but I was very scared of my physical ability to do it. I remember day one -- we sat at the edge of the desert and it was such an inferno that you couldn\'t breathe. I thought, "We\'ve got to do it now!" At that moment I was a very scared man.\'\nIf it was like that at the beginning, how did they feel towards the end? \'When you\'ve walked for 1,000 kilometres you\'re not going to duck out. You\'ve endured so much; you\'ve got so much behind you. We were very thin, but very muscular and sinewy despite our physical exhaustion. My body was well-toned and my legs were like pistons. I could walk over anything.\'\nMidway through the book, Blackmore went on to describe lying in the desert gazing up at a full moon, thinking of his family. How conscious was he of the ordeal it must have been for them? \'Inside me there\'s someone trying to find peace with himself. When I have doubts about myself now, I go back to the image of the desert and think, well, we managed to pull that together. As a personal achievements, I feel prouder of that expedition than of anything else I\'ve dine. Yet in terms of a lifetime\'s achievement, I think of my family and the happiness we share -- against that yardstick, the desert does not measure up, does not compare.\'\nHas Charles Blackmore found peace? \'I yearn for the challenge -- for the open spaces -- the resolve of it all. We were buoyed up by the sense of purpose. I find it difficult now to be part of the uniformity of modern life.\'', 'label': '4'}
{'text': 'NATURAL TALENTS\n\nIn the mere seven million years since we humans separated from chimpanzees, we haven\'t had time to develop any differences: genetically we\'re still more than 98 per cent identical to chimps.\nOn this grand evolutionary scale, whatever it is that separates humans from animals is a very recent development. Our biological history implies that our physical capacity for making art (whatever changes were needed in the human physique, brain, and sense organs) and anything else we consider uniquely human must be due to just a tiny fraction of our genes.\nThat\'s a large burden to place on a relative handful of genes. It should come as no surprise, then, that modern studies of animal behaviour have been shrinking the list of attributes once considered uniquely human, so that most differences between us and animals now appear to be only matters of degree.\nFor example, tools are used not only by humans but also by wild chimpanzees (which use sticks as eating utensils and weapons), and sea otters (which crack open clams with rocks). As for language, monkeys have a simple one, with separate warning sounds for \'leopard\', \'eagle\' and \'snake\'. These discoveries leave us with few absolute differences, other than art, between ourselves and animals. But if human art sprang from a unique genetic endowment, isn\'t it strange that our ancestors dispensed with it for at least the first 6.9 million of the 7 million years since they diverged from chimps?\nThe earliest art forms may well have been wood carvings or body painting. But if they were, we wouldn\'t know it, because those materials don\'t get preserved. Not until the Cro-Magnons, beginning around 35,000 years ago, do we have unequivocal evidence for a distinctly human art, in the form of the famous cave paintings, statues, necklaces and musical instruments.\nIf we\'re going to insist that our recent creative burst finally does set us apart, then in what ways do we claim that our art differs from the superficially similar works of animals? Three supposed distinctions are often put forward: human art is non-utilitarian, it\'s made for aesthetic pleasure and it\'s transmitted by learning rather than by genes. Let\'s scrutinise these claims.\nFirst, as Oscar Wilde said, "All art is quite useless". The implicit meaning a biologist sees behind this quip is that human an doesn\'t help us survive or pass on our genes -- the evident functions of most animal behaviours. Of course, much human an is utilitarian in the sense that the artist communicates something to fellow humans, but transmitting one\'s thoughts or feelings isn\'t the same as passing on one\'s genes. In contrast, birdsong serves the obvious functions of defending a territory or wooing a mate, and thereby transmitting genes. By this criterion human art does seem different.\nThe second claim -- that only human art not is motivated by aesthetic pleasure -- also seems plausible. While we can\'t ask robins whether they enjoy the form or beauty of their songs, it\'s suspicious that they sing mainly during the breeding season. Hence they\'re probably not singing just for aesthetic pleasure. Again, by this criterion human art seems unique.\nAs for human art\'s third distinction -- that it\'s a learned rather than an instinctive activity -- each human group does have distinctive art styles that surely are learned. For example, it\'s easy to distinguish typical songs being sung today in Tokyo and in Paris. But those stylistic differences aren\'t wired into the singers genes. The French and Japanese often visit each other\'s cities and can learn each other\'s songs. In contrast, some species of birds inherit the ability to produce the particular song of their species. Each of those birds would sing the right song even if it had never heard the tune. It\'s as if a French baby adopted by Japanese parents, flown in infancy to Tokyo and educated there, began to sing the French national anthem spontaneously.\nThe role of learning in human art is also clear in how quickly our an styles change. Roman authors described geese honking 2,000 years ago, as geese still do today. But humans innovate so rapidly that even a casual museum-goer would recognise almost any twentieth century painting as having been made later than, say, the Mona Lisa. Connoisseurs can do better, of course. When shown a work with which they are not familiar, they can often identify not only when it was painted but who painted it.\nYet even connoisseurs would mistake the identity of two mid-twentieth century artists named Congo and Betsy. If judged only by their works, they would probably be identified as lesser-known abstract expressionists. In fact the painters were chimpanzees. Congo did up to 33 paintings and drawings in one day, apparently for his own satisfaction, and threw a tantrum when his pencil was taken away.\nCongo and Betsy were honoured by a two-chimp show of their paintings in 1957 at London\'s Institute of Contemporary Art. What\'s more, most of the paintings available at that show sold; plenty of human artists can\'t make that boast.\nThese paintings by our closest relatives, then, do start to blur some distinctions between human art and animal activities. Like human paintings, the ape paintings served no narrow utilitarian functions; they were produced not for material regard but only for the painter\'s satisfaction. You might object that human art is still different because most human artists intend their art as a means of communication. The apes, on the other hand, were so indifferent to communicating with other apes that they just discarded their paintings. But that objection doesn\'t strike me as fatal, since even some human art that later became famous was created by artists for their private satisfaction.', 'label': '4'}
{'text': "Hit and miss of mass marketing\n\nAS ALMOST everyone knows, advertising is in the doldrums. It isn't just the recession. Advertising started to plummet early in 1989, well before the recession really began to bite.\nAdvertising's problems are more fundamental, and the decline is worldwide. The unhappy truth is that advertising has failed to keep up with the pace of economic change.\nAdvertisers like to think in terms of mass markets and mass media, but as brands and media have proliferated, target markets have fragmented. Even campaigns for major brands ought to be targeted at minority audiences, but they rarely are. That is the principal way in which advertising has gone astray.\nThink about your own shopping habits. If you visit a supermarket you may leave with 30, 40 or perhaps 50 items listed on your check-out bill, the average number of items of all kinds purchased per visit of all kinds.\nMany of these will not be advertised brands; some others will be multiple purchases of the same brand. At a maximum you will have bought a handful of advertised brands from the 15,000 lines on sale in the store. Over a year you are unlikely to buy more than a few hundred brands. \nConsumer durables? Perhaps a dozen a year. Cars? If yours is a new car, the statistical likelihood is that it is supplied by your employer.\nIf it isn't, you only buy one every three years. And though it may seem otherwise, you do not buy that many clothes either, and most of them will not be advertised brands.\nEven when you throw in confectionery, medicines, hardware, all the services you can think of, it is virtually certain you do not buy more than 400 different brands a year. Compare that figure with the 32,500 branded goods and services that, according to Media Register, are advertised. Let's ignore the 23,000 which spend less than PS50,000 a year, and concentrate on the 9,500 brands that Media Register Individually lists and analyses.\nMr and Mrs Average have bought 400 of that 9,500, and not all because of their advertising. That's about 4 per cent. So you can forget that naive claim usually attributed to Lord Leverhulme: 'Half of my advertising is wasted but I've no way of knowing which half.' You could say that 96 per cent of all advertising is wasted, but nobody knows which 96 per cent.\nWhen you're watching TV tonight, count how many of the commercials are for brands you buy or are likely to buy in the future. For most people the figure seems to be about one in 16 (6 per cent) so the commercials for the other 15 (94 per cent) are, on the face of it, wasted.\nYou probably think you're a special case, that you are impervious to advertising. Almost everyone thinks the same. But you aren't and they aren't. The truth is nobody buys most of the brands they see advertised.\nWaste is inherent in the use of media for advertising. The notion that every reader of a publication or every viewer of a commercial break might immediately rush out and buy all or even many of the brands advertised is ludicrous. People register only a tiny number of advertisements they see and ignore the rest, so waste cannot be avoided. That does not mean advertising isn't cost-effective. Millions of advertisements have proved it is.\nAdvertising has to communicate with large numbers of people to reach the relevant minority, because the advertiser cannot know, in advance, exactly which individuals will respond to his blandishments. Media advertising works, despite its much publicised expense, because it is a cheap means of mass communication.\nNonetheless, all waste is gruesome. With smart targeting the advertiser can minimise the wastage by increasing the percentage of readers or viewers who will respond; but he can never know precisely who will respond. Even the most accurate and finely tuned direct mail-shot never achieves a 100 per cent response. This is one of the fundamental differences between the use of media and face-to-face selling. It is possible, just, to envisage a salesman scoring with every prospective client he speaks to. The same could never happen when media are used. If the advertiser knew exactly which people were going to respond there would be no point in using media at all. The advertiser could communicate with them directly.\nThis is as true of Birth, Marriage and Death notices as it is of soft drink commercials. Any advertiser who can net one million new customers (2 per cent of the adult population) is doing well. Of soap powder, the two top-selling brands in supermarkets would be delighted with a million extra customers. So that any advertising campaign, for any product (or any political party for that matter) which could win over 2 per cent of the population would be outstandingly successful: and that, as I began by saying, is but a tiny minority of the population.\nThe most cost-effective way to reach them may be the use of mass media, but if advertising is to get going again its message will need to be more tightly targeted than ever before.", 'label': '4'}
{'text': 'Career Power\n\nGet the leading edge - motivate yourself to take full control at work.\n\nA.\nWhat makes a good leader? A leader is one who inspires, an agent of change, a developer who shows the way forward. Leadership is not about breeding or height - taller being better, as the early theorists believed. It\'s not simply about intelligence, either. Pat Dixon, author of the book Making the Difference: Women and Men in the Workplace, says that leadership is about \'making things happen through people who are as enhuastic and interested as you are\'.\nEnthusiasm is a key element and, to convey it and encourage it in others, a good leader should be able to speak out articulately and with conviction. \'It\'s having the confidence to say "I believe" instead of "I think", maintains Dixon.\n\nB.\nJohn van Maurik, director of a Leadership in Management course, says, \'Most people have a far greater potential for leadership than they realise. The process of becoming a leader is recognising those latent talents, developing them and using them.\'\nIn one sense, we are all born leaders - we just need the right circumstances in which to flourish. While it\'s quite easy to recognise leadership in the grand sense -- be it in the form of figures like Emmeline Pankhurst, Mahatma Ghandi or even Richard Branson - it may be more difficult to relate it to our own workplace. And yet this quality is now regarded as the cornerstone of effective management.\n \n\nC.\nConsider the best and worst boss you\'ve ever had. They may have been equally good at setting objectives, meeting deadlines and budgets. But what about how they achieved them? The best leader will have motivated you and may have given you support. The worst leader would have made you feel like a small cog in the corporate machinery and kept information from you, and then when things went wrong would have reacted as if it were your fault. The first led (very well); the second simply managed (very badly).\n\nD.\nLeaders and managers can be seen as different animals. Managers tend to enjoy working according to set boundaries. Leaders create their own horizons. \'A good manager can keep even an inefficient company running relatively smoothly,\' writes Micheal Shea, the author of Leadership Rules. \'But a good leader can transform a demoralised organisation - whether it\'s a company, a football team or a nation.\' \n\nE.\nWhether you\'re the boss or a middle manager, you can benefit from improving your leadership skills. There are definite lessons to be learnt: \n* Leadership is something we do best when we choose to do it. So find out where your passions and convictions lie. Next time you feel inspired to lead, harness the energy it gives you and act on it.\n* Start thinking of yourself as a leader. Your ability to lead is a powerful part of you. Recognise it.\n* Collaboration can be fine, but there will be times when firm leadership is required. Experiment with your style. If you are a natural transactor, try being the negotiator. If you always ask for the views of others, try taking the lead. Watch how the outcome is changed by this change in you.\n* You have to set goals, then beat them. Look at the demands of your job and define those where being a leader will greatly enhance your effectiveness and career prospects.\n\nF. \n* Leadership does not simply happen. It can only develop from actually taking the lead, from taking risks and learning from mistakes. Learn how to delegate and motivate; organise and chastise; praise and raise.\n* Don\'t assume that your way of leading will immediately win over colleagues. It may even alienate them. Keep working on your communication skills. You don\'t have to be liked - but your ideas and accomplishments do.\n* Be visible and accessible to those who are important. But bear in mind * You don\'t have to lead all the time. Be clear on where your contribution is vital and how you can help others to develop as leaders.', 'label': '4'}
{'text': 'Under Sarah\'s Spell\nSarah Janson is a trompe-l\'oeil artist whose paintings are designed to deceive the eye by creating the illusion of reality. Here she is interviewed by Joanna Watt\nThere cannot he many artists who l10 not sign their work unless they are asked to. Sarah Janson, a trompe-l\'oeil artist, is one. She is not remotely interested in the concept\nof the artist as creator, let alone that of the artist as genius: \'It\'s not the artist\nwho is important, but the work,\' she states. Janson is so self-deprecating that she would almost like you to believe that her trompe-l\'oeil works paint themselves.\nAll of which does not bode well for a magazine interview. \'I just don\'t like to shout about myself,\' she says, and then covers her face in horror when asked if she minds being photographed for the feature, Cut to her sitting room 30 minutes later (a wonderful space in a Hock of artists\' studios in London, filled with paintings and drawings) and you find two women bent double with hysteria. Her confidence gained, the interview becomes a fascinating, amusing (and sometimes hilarious) encounter.\nJanson has been a trompe-l\'oeil artist for sixteen years, after two years\' solid drawing at art school (\'the best training any artist can ever have\'}, a degree in graphic illustration and a stint at a publishing house. But illustration never really satisfied her, and she joined a specialist decorator, Jim Smart (\'one of the best in his day\'). Smart asked her to do one trompe-l\'oeil, and that was it. \'Suddenly my interest got channelled,\' she says, She left to set up on her own, \'not really knowing where I was going, hut feeling that I was on the road to somewhere.\' Her instinct was right.\nJanson\'s observational skills and fascination with detail (gained through illustrating) proved essential qualities for a trompe-l\'oeil artist. \'People often ask me where they can learn trompe-l\'oeil. But no one can teach you. Trompe-l\'oeil is the school of life. It\'s all about observation.\' She insists (in that self-deprecating way) that she is still learning. \'The moment you think that you\'ve mastered a field you might as well give up.\' She is also brutally honest about her \'failings\' (\'I can\'t paint bread; it always looks like grey concrete\') and is frank about her mathematical abilities. Faced with a huge commission for the domed chapel ceiling at Lulworth Castle, she became totally confused when calculating measurements. \'I thought to myself, "You\'re not Michelangelo. Who do you\nthink you are?"\' This habit of self-questioning and a reluctance to openly acknowledge her skills has spawned an oddly distanced attitude to her talent. Janson often speaks in the third person: \'When I finished that ceiling, I thought, "Well I didn\'t do it, she did".\'\nOf course, her trompe-l\'oeil schemes can speak for themselves. Janson\'s work is in a league of its own, far above those who have jumped on the bandwagon (the art of trompe-l\'oeil has experienced something of a revival, hut not with entirely satisfactory results) and she has a string of major corporate and private commissions behind her. Much of her work is inspired by architecture or made for architectural settings. There is the trompe-l\'oeil dining room for one client, based on the facade of a Venetian palazzo, and the painting at the end of a corridor in a Hat, which gives the illusion that you can step into two further rooms.\nThere is always a danger with trompe-l\'oeil, though, that once you get the joke, your attention is lost, something of which Janson is acutely aware. \'Trompe-l\'oeil has to do two things. First, it must draw you in; it\'s got to trick you. Secondly, it has to hold you and then engage your imagination. That is the most important part.\'\nWhile trompe-l\'oeil has to be clever, it must also, Janson believes, be personal to the client. \'I love the interaction with clients; hat is where the ideas arc horn,\' she says. \'Without the rapport, the job of creating a trompe-l\'oeil scheme becomes rather difficult. Some clients have firm ideas about what they want; others do not. You have to he willing to listen. You have to get inside a client\'s imagination.\' Many have become friends, nut least because Janson practically lives with them if she works on site.\nJanson is generous in praise of her clients. \'I am very grateful for the mad ones who have let me loose on their walls.\' she confesses. And, they too, seem delighted with her, which is why she is constantly busy - despite her inclination to play down her talent. \'I really don\'t like to shout about myself,\' she repeats at the end. \'Like my work, I am very restrained. I don\'t want it to shout. You become bored with things that shout.\' True, perhaps, hut you could never really become bored with Janson or her work. It certainly deserves to become better known, and I am prepared to incur her wrath while I blow her trumpet.\n', 'label': '4'}
{'text': "Films on video\nFilm critic Nick James reviews some recent releases\nA\nAbyss\nLong before Titanic, director James Cameron made this sweaty, claustrophobic Cold War thriller about oil riggers and navy experts trying to rescue a nuclear submarine stranded many miles beneath water The banter and self-deprecating bravery of foreman Bud and his men rekindle memories of similarly laconic heroes In movies directed by Howard Hawks. Production design and special effects are hugely impressive. It's only the dialogue and characterisation that creak For all the craftsmanship which goes Into the film-making, the story Itself IS strictly B-movie material.\nB\nThe Thin Red Line\nThe video release of this version of the James Jones novel about the battle for Guadalcanal directed by Andrew Marton makes a fascinating counterpart to Terrence Malick's new film. Whereas Malick's approach IS mystical and poetic, Marton made a much more conventional war movie. albeit one that is often truer to the book. He concentrated on a single soldier, and on his relationship with his abrasive sergeant. Malick's film IS Infinitely richer and more complex, but Marton's version has ItS moments. The flashback sequence, In which the soldier dreams of the wife he longs for, is handled with a harshness which arguably works better than Malick's soft-focus Imagery of the woman on the swing.\nC\nOn Guard\nLoosely based on Paul Feval's 1875 novel, this corny but highly watchable swashbuckler IS a cut above most musketeer adventures It has a consummate villain In Fabrice Luchini's clammy politician, orchestrating death and destruction behind the scenes Vincent Perez makes an exuberant (If rather short-lived) hero, and while Daniel Auteuil is perhaps too moody a presence for a romp like this, he too has his moments as an acrobat-turned-swordsman. The film-makers peddle costume-drama cliches with so much Wit and sparkle It never seems to matter.\nD\nCharacter\nA handsome but dour tale, set In turn-of-the-century Rotterdam. The excessively detailed production and costume design leave the film looking like a museum piece. Taking his cue from the surroundings, Jan Decleir is endlessly morose as the brutal bailiff Dreverhaven, who behaves ruthlessly when evICting tenants. HIS antagonistic relationship with his son IS at the core of the story, but the film-makers seem too busy laYing on the period detail to do Justice to the dark and vicious parable.\nE\nThe Good, the Bad and the Ugly\nThis digitally re-mastered video re-release shows off director Leone's craftsmanship to ItS best advantage. The sound editing, in particular, stands out every footstep, creaking floorboard or barking dog registers loud and clear. The storytelling IS relentlessly cruel and whenever there's a lull, It only takes a burst of Morricone's magnificent music to quicken the pulse On a moral level, there Isn't much to distinguish between the good (Clint Eastwood), the bad (Lee van Cleef) and the ugly (Ell Wallach), all of whom seem equally unscrupulous as they maraud across the post- Civil War West.\nF\nThe Longest Day\n'Forty-eight International stars' trumpets the publicity for this three-hour Darryl Zanuck war epic. With four directors and 23,000 extras as well, this is one pudding which is definitely over-egged The early sequences, in which the battle-hardened veterans walt for confirmation of when the invasion will happen, drag as much for the audience as for the soldiers. On a logistical level (If not an aesthetic one), this is an impressive enough feat but it cries out for the big screen Panned and scanned on video, It is inevitably a diminished experience.\n ", 'label': '4'}
{'text': "Photographing People\n\nPeople are the most interesting of all subjects. A photograph with someone in it is almost always more compelling than the same shot without the human interest. People are also the most difficult subjects to photograph well. Apart from the technical and artistic considerations, the photographer has to be conscious of actions, gestures and expressions. And often the presence of the camera itself can have a disastrous effect on these.\n\nA. GROUPING PEOPLE\n\nAvoid straight lines in group shots. Ask people to stand at different angles and distances and if possible on different levels. Otherwise, have some of the group sitting or kneeling at the front so that you can see all the faces, or raise your own viewpoint.\n\nB. POSING FOR PICTURES\n\nPeople seldom act naturally in front of the camera. Often they stiffen up and the pose becomes rather wooden. Relax your subject by helping him to find a comfortable position. You might suggest he folds his hands or puts them in his pockets.\n\nC. THE RIGHT APPROACH\n\nNever try to pretend that you are not taking a picture of someone when it is clear that you are as this only creates tension and even hostility. Most people will agree to have their picture taken - perhaps after some initial protestations - and are quite flattered by it. But they are likely to become rather self-conscious and you may need to direct them. A picture can be spoiled by the fact that the subject is looking rather aimlessly out of the picture so that the interest lies elsewhere.\n\nD. EYE CONTACT\n\nA picture gains immediate impact if the subject appears to be looking at the viewer of the picture. Ask your subject to look into the lens - not necessarily to smile as well -- and this is the effect you will get. The subject may not be able to do this for too long: he may become self-conscious or be distracted by someone nearby. So remind him once more, just before you release the shutter. Or try saying something funny or unexpected as you take the shot for a genuine reaction rather than a meaningless stare.\n\nE. CANDID CONCENTRATION\n\nAn alternative to direct eye contact is for the subject to concentrate on something within the picture area. Your subject might find this easier to do, and the viewer can follow the attention to another part of the picture. You get the impression that you are observing the subject unnoticed. Candid shots have a special fascination and the subject's expression is vital to the picture.\n\nF. EXPRESSIONS AND GESTURES\n\nExpressions and the gestures that go with them tell us more about the subject of a photograph than anything else. Even if he is obviously badly treated and hungry, a laughing child provokes a smile from the viewer, whereas a sad expression produces a sympathetic sadness in the viewer, however apparently comfortable the subject may be. Look for familiar expressions for your portraits: shrugs, winks, anger, tears, thumbs-up, fist-clenching and so on. They are an instant visual language.\n\nG. SITUATION INTEREST\n\nThough shots which isolate a figure or face prominently have great impact, the subject's background or environment can add extra interest and information about the subject. When using a background in this way, try to exclude details that are not relevant to the subject or blur them by focusing selectively. Make sure that the subject is not overwhelmed by the background - a wide-angle lens will make your subject appear relatively larger by comparison with the background.\n\nH. INTERACTION\n\nWherever two or more people are talking, arguing, haggling, joking or working together, there are opportunities for good pictures. Couples make appealing shots; so do mothers and babies, teachers and children or teams of people working or playing a sport. Look out especially for contact between the subjects - either eye-contact or physical contact, like a protective hand on the arm or a handshake. Or show how one is reacting to another by waiting for an animated expression or telling gesture.\n\nI. PEOPLE AND PLACES\n\nMany pictures of people are taken on holiday or during an outing - partly to show the place they were visiting. A little care will greatly improve this type of picture. To show people against a relevant background, use a standard or a wide-angle lens and move far enough back to get the whole building (or mountain, or lake) in the frame. Ask your subjects to come fairly close to the camera and compose the picture so that the group forms a foreground interest without obscuring the background. If you can find a slightly elevated camera position, this will be far easier to do. A good picture will show a balance between the subjects and the place they were visiting, so that both claim an equal share of the viewer's attention.\n\nJ. TO POSE OR NOT TO POSE?\n\nIn answer to this question, first decide why you want to take the picture. If you are taking a picture to remember someone by someone you may have met briefly on holiday, for example - then you will want a good clear picture and it would be worth asking the subject to pose against a well-chosen background. Pictures of the family, on the other hand, can be very tedious if they are a succession of formal poses in front of places of interest. Candid pictures of events as they happen are far more lively, and you are more likely to get unselfconscious shots when you know the subject well. A picture taken on the spur of the moment will jog the family memory in future years far better than a posed portrait.", 'label': '4'}
{'text': "A trumpet isn't just for Christmas...\n\nIt is strange how many musicians, even leading ones, come from homes without music. Out of the blue, Hakan Hardenberger, the only son of totally unmusical parents in a country district of southern Sweden, has at the age of 30 established himself as unique among the world's trumpet-players today.\nHis records are continually opening up new repertory, not just concertos by long-neglected composers of the baroque and classical periods, but new works too. When you meet him, bright-eyed and good-looking, he seems even younger than his years, as fresh and open in his manner as the sound of the trumpet.\nRecently in one of London's premier concert halls he played the Hummel Trumpet Concerto, something of a party-piece for him, while on television a whole feature was devoted to his work and development, filmed both here and in Sweden.\nBorn near Malmo, he owes his career to the accident of a Christmas present when he was only eight.\nHis father, unmusical but liking Louis Armstrong's playing, had the idea of giving his only son a trumpet. Being a serious man, he didn't pick a toy trumpet, but took advice and bought a genuine grown-up instrument.\nThe success of the gift was instant. The boy never stopped playing. His mother managed to contact the second trumpet-player in the Malmo Symphony Orchestra, whom she persuaded to give her son lessons.\nBo Nilsson was an up-and-coming musician, and at once spotted natural talent. Hardenberger consistently blesses his luck to have got such a teacher right from the start, one who was himself so obsessed with the trumpet and trumpet-playing that he would search out and contact players all over the world, and as a 'trumpet fanatic' was 'always looking for another mouthpiece'.\nThere the mature Hardenberger has to draw a line between himself and his teacher. 'The trumpet is so primitive an instrument,' he explains, 'that you can't build a trumpet that is acoustically perfect. Whatever you do, it will have imperfections. Besides, you can't find two mouthpieces exactly the same. To me it is a matter of getting to know the imperfections and making a relationship with them.'\nFrom the very start Hardenberger seems to have had the gift of finding the right compromise, and making that relationship. Without any sense of boasting, he explains that even in his boyhood years the characteristic Hardenberger sound was already recognisable, 'the first thing I acquired'.\nAnd unlike the great British contender among virtuoso trumpet-players, John Wallace, who developed originally from a brass-band background and then through working in orchestras, Hardenberger has always thought of himself as a solo artist pure and simple.\nFrom early boyhood he had as a role-model the French trumpeter, Maurice Andre, another player who bypassed the orchestra. The boy bought all his records, and idolised him.\nHis parents gave him every chance to practise, and went along with his ambition to make trumpet-playing a career. It was then a question of where, at 15, he should be sent to study. America, Bo Nilsson's first choice, was thought to be too far away and too dangerous, which meant that he went instead at the age of 16 to study in Paris with Pierre Thibaud. Thibaud confirmed his prejudice against going into an orchestra, saying that 'Playing in the orchestra is like digging in the garden.'\nHe was objective enough about himself to know that he played the trumpet better than others of his age, but it was only at the end of the first competition he entered, at the age of 17 during his first year in Paris, that he came to realise that in addition he had a particular gift of communicating.\nThibaud suggested that he should enter the competition just for experience. Hardenberger learned the pieces for the first round only, but he won through to the second. Luckily he already knew most of the pieces in that round too, but on getting through to the final he was faced with a concerto that had already daunted him. He didn't win first prize that time, but he enjoyed the performance, realising that though he 'played like a pig', people did listen to him.\nQuoted like that, Hardenberger's realism about his work and his career may sound arrogant, but that would be a totally false impression. Thoughtfully he refuses to try and analyse what such a gift of communication might consist of, as 'You risk destroying it in trying to explain. The power of the music lies in the fact that it can always move people.'", 'label': '4'}
{'text': 'From here to paternity\n\nA. The theatre director\n\nBecause of my bizarre personal life, which I cannot be proud of, I have been blessed with 35 years of small children and I can honestly say I have loved every minute. I had the pleasure of feeding the baby this morning and that for me is what being a father is all about.\nI\'m terribly lucky with my children. We all love the same things: opera, theatre, books, music. It creates a great bond, especially now that they are mostly grown up and I have become a friend rather than a father.\nI don\'t believe in physical violence. I have been guilty of slapping my children in anger, but I don\'t condone it. I\'m sure I have not been a deeply attentive father but I have always tried to be available. I\'m here if they need me, always on the basis that they ring me. As soon as you start chasing them to ask why they have not been in touch, you impose this terrible burden of guilt. My parents did it to me and I would never do it to my children.\n\nB. The advertising executive \n\nI was young when they were born, only around 25, and I admit I found the responsibilities and limitations quite irksome. It aged me quickly, but at the same time it kept me young, which is something I have always valued. \nAs they became teenagers, they introduced me to things I could have drifted away from: music, youth culture, clothes. In a funny way that has been invaluable as far as running the agency has been concerned. I have never felt out of touch. \nBecause I was struggling to establish the business when they were young there were things I missed: first concerts, sports days. I\'m sad about that, but there are compensations now, like being able to take them on holidays to the south of France.\nThey get on well with a lot of our friends and they come to parties with us and advertising awards ceremonies without feeling intimidated. I think it has been an advantage that I do something they see as glamorous and interesting.\n\nC. The politician\n\nMy first child was born just as I was about to be elected onto the Greater London Council, and the others followed in quite quick succession. My wife and I vowed that we would carve out time for them but since I have become more and more politically active, time has become a real problem. \nI make it a condition that I will only accept weekend meetings and public appearances where there are facilities for one or more of the kids to come with me. If I did not they would just get squeezed out. This way they have a sense of what I do when I am not with them and there is no feeling of Daddy disappearing.\nI\'ve noticed more and more MPs bringing their kids to the House. Maybe we are all becoming more conscious of the need to involve our children in our lives.\n\nD. The writer\n\nMy first marriage broke up when Kate and Bonnie were quite young, so I was forced to examine the whole area of fatherhood more closely than I might otherwise have done. I made enormous efforts to stay in touch with the children. My ex-wife and I even experimented with living next door to each other for a while, so they could come and go as they wished, but I think Kate and Bonnie would say now that they found that quite confusing.\nKate has said in interviews that I was always there for her, but I am not sure I was a very good father. It is true I was around a lot, but, like a lot of Seventies parents, I think I treated the kids as adults too soon. Kate was complaining only the other day that we were too liberal. I think I could have introduced more systems, more order. Instead I took this very loose approach. I regret that now.\nI still worry about my elder daughters as much as I do about my youngest. In that way your kids never leave you.\n\nE. The TV presenter\n\nI was ready for kids. I\'d hit 30, met my wife, we had a lovely house, so we thought, "Why carry on going to the shops every Saturday spending our money on new sofas, when we could have a kid instead?"\nHaving my daughter Betty has forced me to come to terms with who I am and what I am. You feel you are doing something very special when you conceive a child, and you are. But you are also becoming just one more parent in a great long line of parents. It\'s a great leveller.\nI do resent it occasionally but if ever there is a moment of irritation, it is dispelled by just one look at her. A baby\'s smile is the greatest self-preservation mechanism in the world. It can melt a grown man.', 'label': '4'}
{'text': "REMOTE HOTELS\n\nA. INDIA\n\nGIIANERAO HOTEL, RAJASTHAN\n\nGhanerao Hotel sits at the edge of the Aravalli Hills in a small rural village dominated by craftsmen. It mixes English country-house tranquillity with Indian symbolism. The Ghanerao family have lived there for 400 years and today, Sajjan Singh and his wife have opened their home to paying guests. The facilities are basic, with hot water arriving by bucket, but the spartan aspects of life at Ghanerao just add to its appeal.\n\nB. NEW ZEALAND\n\nHERMITAGE HOTEL, MOUNT COOK\n\nOne of my favourite hotels is the Hermitage Hotel on New Zcaland's South Island which I came across by chance when I was climbing. We had been flown up to near the top of a glacier and had climbed to the peak and then had to walk all the way down. When we finally reached the bottom, to my astonishment, there was this hotel. It was on its own in the most stupendously beautiful countryside, very wild and very high up. To come down the mountain battered and exhausted and find yourself in extreme luxury, with a man playing Cole Porter on the piano, was extraordinary.\n\nC. MAURITIUS\n\nBEACI ICOMBER PARADIS HOTEL\n\nOn the south-west of Mauritius, the Paradis Hotel is isolated on its own peninsula in one of the quietest corners of the island. If you drive from here, the road winds along the coast past beaches with no-one on them but fishermen.\nThe hotel isn't small and there are plenty of takers for the free watersports, but you can easily escape from all the other people along nine kilometres of private beach; you have only to swim a few yards out into the Indian Ocean and you can barely see the hotel for palm trees. Sit on the beach in the evening when everyone has gone and as the light drains from the sky you'll feel far away from everything.\n\nD. ST LUCIA\n\nLADERA HOTEL, ST LUCIA\n\nThe Ladera Hotel in St Lucia has one of the Caribbean's most dramatic settings. Quiet and far off the beaten track, it stands at an altitude of 1,000 feet, its open rooms looking out between the twin peaks of the Pitons to the Caribbean Sea some view first thing in the morning! The style is colonial, with furniture in mahogany and greenheart wood, and four-poster beds screened with muslin netting.\n\nE. TURKEY\n\nTHE SPLENDID HOTEL, INSTANBUL\n\nThis hotel, on Buyukada in the Princes Islands is the perfect place to escape the noise of Istanbul. The islands are only an hour by boat, and are simply idyllic. There are no cars, only horse-drawn carriages and fabulous twenties wooden architecture. The islands are a cross between Key West and the Old South, and the landmark building is the Splendid. All in wood, painted white with red domes, it's a copy of a turn-of-the-century hotel on the French Riviera. Today it's a little run down, but has lost none of its charm.\n\nF. FRANCE\n\nCHATEAU D'ETOGES, EPERNAY\n\nIn the tiny village of Etoges, in the heart of Champagne, is a beautiful seventeenth century chateau. Surrounded by a moat with two swans, the chateau, until recently a family home, has 20 rooms which are all different, some with four-poster beds - one even has a large billiard table. There are special weekend rates for two nights with breakfast and dinner plus complimentary champagne (their own brand - if you want to take some home).\n\nG. KENYA\n\nTHE FAIRVIEW HOTEL, NAIROBI\n\nThe Fairview is that rare bird in Africa - a comfortable hotel that hasn't decked itself out in feathers of upmarket gloss and tasteless luxury. It's an indispensable staging post, always full of travellers recuperating from one safari and planning the next. Overnight guests have been known to arrive, take one look at the gardens, the bedrooms and the dining-hall menu, and decide on the spot to stay for a week. There are even apartments set aside specially for those who make up their minds to settle in for a few months. The hotel's leafy acres and scattered buildings are laid out on Nairobi Hill, a world away from the overhead bustle of the city centre. I don't know of any better place to sit and watch the sudden African sunset, sipping draught beer and looking forward to a hearty dinner - braised zebra and two veg, following by jelly trifle.\n\nH. ITALY\n\nHOTEL SPLENDIDO, PORTOFINO\n\nThe Duke of Windsor was the first to sign the visitors hook at the Hotel Splendido. Ever since, a galaxy of the fabulous has drifted in and out of the hotel's portals to play, stay and be seen: Lauren Bacall and Humphrey Bogart, Liz Taylor and Richard Burton. Nowadays, you are more likely to find yourself in the company of a soft drinks billionaire or a rubber-tyre heiress. But this old Monastery-turned-villa-turned-hotel is still, as its name suggests, quite splendid and there is enough reflected glamour to perk up any weekend break. Deliciously simple food in the restaurant and the finest Persian rugs and homemade pasta.", 'label': '4'}
{'text': "THE BOAT OF MY DREAMS\nThe best boat design should combine old and new, says Tom Cunliffe. And he put it into practice in his own craft, 'The Westerman'.\nThis week. the Summer Boat Show in London is resplendent with fine yachts, bristling with new technology. Nearly all are descendants of the hull-shape revolution that took place 25 years ago. By contrast, my own lies quietly on a tidal creek off the south coast. She was designed last year but, seeing her, you might imagine her to be 100 years old and think that her owner must be some kind of lost-soul romantic.\nPerhaps I am, though I doubt it. This boat has benefited from all the magic of old-fashioned boat design, but it would have been a much harder job without the advances of modern know-how.\nIt has to be said, however, that despite being an indispensable tool in current design methods and boat-building practice, sophisticated technology frequently insulates crews from the harsh realities of maritime life. These are often the very realities they hoped to rediscover by going to sea in the first place.\nIt's not that I'm suggesting that sailors should go back to enduring every hardship. It's always been important to me that my boats have a coal stove for warmth and dryness and cosy berths for sleeping. But why go cruising at all if every sail sets and furls itself?\nThe occasional battle with flapping canvas is surely part of a seaman's life. And for what purpose should we abandon common sense and move our steering positions from the security of the aft end to some vulnerable perch half-way to the bow? The sad answer is that this creates a cabin like that of an ocean liner, with space for a bed larger than the one at home.\nFor me a boat should always be a boat and not a cottage on the water. When I bought an earlier boat, Hirta, in which I circumnavigated Britain for a TV race series, the previous owner observed that she had every comfort, but no luxury. During my long relationship with her, Hirta taught me how wise he was.\nHer sails were heavy, and she had no pumped water, no electricity to speak of, no fridge, no central heating, no winches, and absolutely no electronics, especially in the navigation department, yet she was the kindest, easiest boat that I have ever sailed at sea.\nBack on land, however, it is a sad fact that the very antiquity of classic boats means that they need a lot of looking after. When I had a bad injury to my back, I realised that my IS-year love affair with her had to end. Searching for a younger replacement produced no credible contenders, so I decided to build a new boat from scratch.\nThe Westerman has never disappointed me. Although Nigel Irens, the designer, and Ed Burnett, his right-hand man, are adept with computer-assisted design programs, Irens initially drew this boat on a paper napkin, and only later transferred his ideas to the computer. After this had generated a set of lines, he carved a model, just as boatyards did in the days of sail. Together we considered the primary embryonic vessel, then fed the design back into the electronic box for modification.\nThe next version was nearly right and by the time the final one appeared, the form was perfect. The completed boat has now crossed the North Atlantic and has won four out of her first six racing starts,\nHer appearance is ageless, her motion at sea is a pleasure and her accommodation, much of it in reclaimed pitch pine, emanates an atmosphere of deep peace. Maybe this is because she was drawn purely as a sailing craft, without reference to any furniture we might put into her. That is the well-tried method of the sea.\nIn her timeless serenity, she is the living proof that it works; that there is no need to follow current fashions to find satisfaction. and that sometimes it pays to listen to the lessons of history.\nConstructed in timber treated with a penetrating glue, she is totally impervious to water. Thus she has all the benefits of a glass fibre boat yet looks like, feels like and sails like the real thing. ", 'label': '4'}
{'text': "Chewing gum culture\n\nIt's fashionable, classless and Americans chew 12 million sticks of it a day. Discover how an ancient custom became big business.\n\nChewing gum contains fewer than ten calories per stick, but it is classified as a food and must therefore conform to the standards of the American Food and Drug Administration.\nToday's gum is largely synthetic, with added pine resins and softeners which help to hold the flavour and improve the texture.\nThis was not always the case, though. The ancient Greeks chewed a gum-like resin obtained from the bark of the mastic tree, a shrub found mainly in Greece and Turkey. Grecian women, especially, favoured mastic gum to clean their teeth and sweeten their breath.\nAmerican colonists followed the example of the Amero-Indians of New England and chewed the resin that formed on spruce trees when the bark was cut. Lumps of spruce for chewing were sold in the eastern United States in the early 1800s making it the first commercial chewing gum in the country.\nModern chewing gum has its origins in the late 1860s with the discovery of chicle, a milky substance obtained from the sapodilla tree of the Central American rainforest.\nGum made from this resulted in a smoother, more satisfying and more elastic chew, and soon a whole industry was born based on this product.\nYet repeated attempts to cultivate sapodilla commercially have failed. As the chewing gum market has grown, synthetic alternatives have had to be developed.\nToday the few remaining chicle gatherers, chicleros, eke out a meagre and dangerous living, trekking for miles to tap scattered sapodilla in near-100% humidity. Conditions are appalling: highly poisonous snakes lurk ready to pounce and insects abound.\nMost alarming is the unpleasant little chicle fly that likes to lodge its eggs in the tappers ears and nose.\nBraving these hazards, barefooted and with only a rope and an axe, an experienced chiclero will shin a mature tree in minutes to cut a path in the bark for the white sap to flow down to a bag below.\nEach chiclero must carry the liquid on his back to a forest camp, where it is boiled until sticky and made into bricks. Life at the camp is no picnic either, with a monotonous and often deficient maize-based diet washed down by a local alcohol distilled from sugar cane.\nYet, punishing though this working environment is, the remaining chicleros fear for their livelihood.\nNot so long ago, the United States alone imported 7,000 tonnes of chicle a year from Central America. Last year just 200 tonnes were tapped in the whole of Mexico's Yucatan peninsula. As chewing gum sales have soared, so the manufacturers have turned to synthetics to reduce costs and meet demands.\nMeanwhile, the world's gum producers are finding ingenious ways of marketing their products. In addition to all the claims made for gum - it helps you relax, peps you up and eases tension (soldiers during both world wars were regularly supplied with gum) - gums greatest claim is that it reduces tooth decay.\nPlaque acid, which forms when we eat, causes this. Our saliva, which neutralises the acid and supplies minerals such as calcium, phosphate and fluoride, is the body's natural defence. Gum manufacturers say 20 minutes of chewing can increase your salivary flow.\nResearch continues on new textures and flavours. Glycerine and other vegetable oil products are now used to blend the gum base. Most new flavours are artificial - but some flavours still need natural assistance.\nIn addition, one hundred and thirty-seven square kilometres of America is devoted entirely to producing the mint that is used in the two most popular chewing gums in the world.", 'label': '4'}
{'text': "A history of the apple\n\nApples have been with us since the dawn of recorded time, in countless varieties of colour, shape and size. But the late twentieth century is in danger of squandering its heritage.\n\nPrehistoric wilding 8,000 BC\n\nHuman beings have been munching apples since prehistoric times. They spat out apple-pips in neolithic Britain. And 10,000 years ago they left apple remains to carbonise around their Swiss and Italian lakeside homes. In Switzerland and in the regions adjoining the Caucasus mountains, ancient humans even appear to have dry-stored apple-halves for winter. But these were wild crab apples, tiny wizened fruit which, in Ancient Britain came to be known as 'windings'. They had little in common with the apples we know today.\n\nNorman knowledge 1000 AD\n\nFrom the Romans the French learned great fruit-growing skills which were developed in the monasteries. This knowledge, which included expel cider-making, was taken to Britain from Roman times, like the dessert apple, Decio - drought to have been introduced by the Roman general, Etio. But most Roman varieties were unsuitable for the British climate and the Norman varieties rapidly took precedence. British monks continued experimenting and developing new apples, and it is from these varieties that Western apples are largely descended.\n\nMediaeval favourites 1200\n\nSeveral kinds of apples became established in Britain during the thirteenth century. The Old English Pearmain, recorded in 1204 and so named because of its pear-like shape, was the main dessert apple until well into the eighteenth century. Its cooking panner was the Costard, which was sold in the markets of Oxford from 1296 until the end of the seventeenth century and gave us the word 'costermonger' - meaning someone who sells fruit and vegetables in the street. But prosperity declined as the country was hit by successive droughts, the Black Death and the Wars of the Roses. Fewer apples were produced and more were imported. This went on until the sixteenth century when Henry VIII ordered his chief fruiterer, Richard Harris, to visit France and learn about apple cultivation. Harris returned with a 'great store of grafts' including the famous Pippins, from which he grew the first ever modern-style orchard at Teynham in Kent.\n\nSettler treasure 1750\n\nBy the seventeenth century apples were so popular in Britain that the first settlers who sailed to Canada, Australia, die US, South Africa and New Zealand took apples and apple-pips with them, counting these among their most treasured possessions. Captain Bligh of the Bounty took the first apples to Australia; Jan van Riebeeck, the founder of Cape Settlement, took them to South Africa and the Pilgrim Fathers who boarded the Mayflower carried them to America. In North America the most famous apple-planter was john Chapman, or 'Johnny Appleseed'. Born in 1774, he planted seedling nurseries from Pennsylvania in the east through Ohio into Indiana in the west. The Indians regarded him as a medicine man and his apple-tree enthusiasm, odd clothing and religious devotion - he distributed religious tracts tom in pans for widespread circulation - stayed many folktales. He was said, for example, to be so kind to Gods creatures that he even slept with bears.\n\nModem Delicious 1850 \n\nAbout this time in Iowa, a Quaker farmer called Jesse Hiatt discovered something sprouting from the roots of a dead tree. The shoot grew into an apple tree bearing a totally new apple which Hiatt named 'Hawkey'. He sent it to a fruit show and on biting into one the judge exclaimed 'Delicious, delicious!'. In 1895 the apple was introduced to the trade as a 'Delicious' and became one of the most widely grown apples in the world.\n\nGranny Smith 1850\n\nAnother of the most famous modern apples was discovered in Australia by Maria Anne Smith. The daughter of transported convicts, Maria was fiercely independent, rejecting both the criminal life of her parents and the bureaucratic hypocrisy of the colonial administration. She worked as a midwife in the small township of Eastwood in New South Wales, where she was known as 'Granny-Smith' because she took on responsibility for maintaining the farm and orchard, which was the family's main source of income. One day in 1868 she found a small tree pushing its way through a pile of discarded fruit. She transplanted it and before long was harvesting the world's first major crop of green apples, soon to be famous all over the world. When asked how the tree came about she said, 'Well, it's just like God to make something useful out of what we think is rubbish' - a comment which referred not only to the fruit but also her own convict origins.\n\nUniformity ales 1950\n\nApples are now grown all over the world from Himachal Pradesh in northern India to small luxury orchards throughout Africa. Most, though, are grown commercially and come from just half a dozen varieties - usually chosen for their red skin or because they travel well rather than because they taste good. A plague of uniformity is sweeping the world, numbing the tastebuds and reducing the gene pool. While amateur gardeners in the UK have kept many old apple varieties alive, the US has lost forever most of the apples it had 100 years ago.\nBut consumers are starting to demand more variety. We can't leave the responsibility of saving diversity in our apples - or any other food - up to the random selections of amateur gardeners. We must insist on a world where natural diversity is valued and protected for the benefit of all.", 'label': '4'}
{'text': "Sound the Alarm\nStuart Harris reports\nMany of us listen to the radio when we get up in the morning and most of us also require some external means to persuade us to get out of bed. Thus we have the clock radio. But how do you pick a good one? Our panel, which consisted of myself plus the inventor Tom Granger and the broadcaster Paul Bridges, tested five currently available.\nThe 'dual alarm function' that is advertised with this model does not allow you, as I first supposed, to be woken by the buzzer, snooze a while and then finally be driven out of bed. The instruction booklet advises you to use this function to set two different wake-up times, one for work days and one for weekends, but whose life is programmed to this extent?\nSince this model costs more or less the same as the second model tested, the inclusion of a cassette player is quite a bargain - you can fall asleep to your own soothing tapes and wake up to a day without news. We all thought the quality of the radio excellent, too - if only the whole thing was smaller. It's as big as a rugby ball. Paul Bridges said, 'Any clock radio I buy has to leave enough space on the bedside table for my keys, wallet, glasses and telephone. Anyway, I'm completely paranoid and always book a wake-up call in case the alarm doesn't go off.'\nThis model was voted best in the beauty stakes and overall winner. Paul Bridges declared himself 'in love with it', although the clock on the one he tested 'kept getting stuck at 16.00'. I was fascinated by the digital display, with its classy grey numbers on a gentle green background. The wide snooze bar means you can tap it on the edge with your eyes shut. Unfortunately, the smooth undulations and tactile buttons, like pebbles on the beach, encouraged me to run my fingers over them as if they were keys on a piano, which proved my undoing when I finally looked at the SO-page instruction booklet.\nThe clock has a self-power back-up so you don't have to reset it if someone unceremoniously pulls the plug out in order to use a hairdryer or the vacuum cleaner; this met with unanimous approval. However, we all found it a technical feat to set up - though completing the learning curve made us feel 'cool' and sophisticated.\nTom Granger described this model with its extra built- in lamp as 'unbelievably tacky' in the way it's made. 'You have to wrench the funny light out of its socket to get it to work, which makes me wonder about the quality of the rest of it.' He complained that he had to read the instruction booklet twice before he could get it to work; the clock kept leaping from 12.00 to 02.00 so he had to go round again.\nThe light was certainly hard to position; you would never be able to read by it - it only shines on the clock, which is illuminated anyway. Paul Bridges said he was 'very tickled' by the lamp idea but agreed that the radio was hard to tune. The buzzer is reminiscent of 'action stations' on a submarine and made me feel like hurling the whole thing across the bedroom. Interestingly, however, this model is the third most popular on the market.\nClearly aimed at young people, with its brightly coloured casing and matching bootlace strap, this one appealed to the child in Tom Granger and me. 'I would choose this one because it doesn't disappear into the background like the others,' he said. In fact, the traditional design of the controls made it the only one we managed to set up without reading the instruction booklet. Too bad the alarm is allowed a hilarious 20- minute margin for error; the manual notes, 'the alarm may sound about 10 minutes earlier or later than the pre-set time'. Paul Bridges scoffed at such a notion, adding that this model was 'terribly fiddly' and, indeed, 'completely useless'.\nThe simplest and cheapest of all the models tested, this scored points with Tom Granger because it 'seemed very standard and took up little space', but also because it has old-fashioned dial tuning. 'It's more intuitive to set up. With modern push-button tuning you're never really sure if you've pressed all the buttons in the right order so you can't have confidence that the thing will actually work.' He accepted, however, that manufacturers had been obliged to improve the quality of radios because of the advent of button-tuning. I thought the tuning rather crude, as did Paul Bridges, but we agreed that the radio quality was fine. The buzzer on this model certainly works; it succeeded in getting me out of bed in just two beeps!\n", 'label': '4'}
{'text': "Natural Books\nWe invited four leading naturalists to tell us about the wildlife classic that has influenced them most.\nA\nGeoffrey Lean\nAt least it wasn't hard to choose the author. As an environmental journalist, one advantage of longevity is that I have had the chance to meet some of the giants who pioneered thinking in the field. Of these, none stood, indeed, still stands, taller than a small, frail woman, Barbara Ward. I can't think of anyone else more at the heart of environmental issues in post-war Europe. She has synthesised her experience of various environmental movements into her own compelling philosophy. Unwillingly 'volunteered' to cover the field, I found, as a young journalist, that she, more than anyone, made it all make sense.\nPicking the book was much harder. It could have been Only One Earth or Progress for a Small Planet. But despite its title (which sounded old-fashioned, even in 1976), The Home of Man is, to me, Barbara's most important book. Its focus is on the explosive growth of the world's cities, but its canvas is the great themes to which she devoted her life. It is as eloquent and as impassioned a plea as exists for what we would now call 'sustainable human development'. In the hundreds of books I have read since, I have yet to meet its equal.\nB\nLinda Bennett\nWhen I open the pages of Signals for Survival by Niko Tinbergen, I can hear the long calls of herring gulls, recall the smell of the guano in the hot sun and visualise the general hullabaloo of the colony. This book explains superbly, through words and pictures, the fascinating world of animal communication.\nRead Signals for Survival and then watch any gull colony, and the frenzy of activity changes from apparent chaos to a highly efficient social structure. You can see which birds are partners, where the boundaries are and, later on in the season, whole families can be recognised.\nA distinguished behaviourist, Niko Tinbergen came from that rare breed of academics who wish to explain their findings to the layperson. His collaboration in this book with one of this century's most talented wildlife artists, Eric Ennion, was inspirational and has produced a book of interest to anyone with a love of wildlife. His spontaneous style of painting came from years of watching and understanding birds. With just a minimal amount of line and colour, he brings to life how one gull is an aggressor, how another shows appeasement. This is the art of a true field naturalist.\nC\nLee Durrell\nMost definitely, My Family and Other Animals by Gerald Durrell is the book that has had the greatest influence on my life. Beyond the obvious reason that it ultimately led me to a wonderful husband, and an exciting career in conservation, this extraordinary book once and for all defined my devotion to the natural world.\nI was doing research work into animal vocalisations in Madagascar when I first read the book. I had been there two years and was discouraged by the number of setbacks I was encountering but when, at the end of the day, I opened My Family and Other Animals to where I had left off the night before, the world became a brighter place. Animals, people, joy and beauty inextricably woven together - a microcosm of a world worth saving.\nMany people say that our species is the worst because of the terrible things we have done to the others. But I like to think back to Gerald as a boy in My Family and Other Animals, looking at the world's inhabitants as a whole, a family whose members, be they good, bad or indifferent, are nevertheless so intertwined as to be inseparable. And that is a concept we all need to grasp.\nD\nBruce Pearson\nA copy of The Shell Bird Book, by James Fisher, found its way into my school library shortly after it was first published in 1966. I was drawn to it at once, especially to the 48 colour plates of birds by Eric Ennion, painted, as the jacket puts it, ... with particular skill and charm'. It was those Ennion images which captured my attention.\nI already had copies of other bird books and had spent several holidays learning to identify birds. They encouraged me to begin sketching what I saw as an aid to identification. But in The Shell Bird Book there was so much more to feast on. As well as the glorious Ennion paintings, there were chapters on migrants and migration, a review of the history of birds in Britain, and, best of all, a chapter on birds in music, literature and art.\nIt was the broad span of ornithological information and the exciting images that steered me towards being more of a generalist in my appreciation of birds and the natural world. The book made it clear that my emotional and creative response to nature was as valid and as possible as a rational and scientific one. And, as art was a stronger subject for me than maths or physics, I began to see a door opening for me\n", 'label': '4'}
{'text': "Mission to Mars \n\nWanted: a middle-aged, married couple for a 501-day round trip to Mars. Applicants must be physically and emotionally robust. \nThis will be the profile of the very first Martian astronauts if multi-millionaire Dennis Tito's plans to launch a capsule on 5 January 2018 actually lead to fruition. The capsule will take the crew to about 160 km above Mars. The spacecraft will use the gravity of Mars to allow it to return to Earth without burning any more fuel, for fuel efficiency is a priority - the 2018 deadline has been fixed since the next launch window when Mars and Earth align again isn't until 2031. It's a normal order, but the race is on to develop systems involving totally new technologies. Given that these can be put in place soon enough, the spacecraft might just make it. But even if it never leaves Earth, the efforts to achieve these ambitious goals will not be in vain, as they will lead to valuable advances for future missions. \n\n", 'label': '5'}
{'text': "Joanna's Lessons\n\nJoanna MacGregor has a hectic schedule as a concert pianist. So why has she added the task of writing books for young children learning the piano?\n\nEven a member of that mythical species, the completely tone deaf, could not fail to be stirred by a Joanna MacGregor performance. Simply to see her zipping around a keyboard grabbing fistfuls of notes at the behest of some unfeasible contemporary score is to watch a pianist pushing the human frame to its limits.\nBut even her dazzling virtuosity was not enough to was one small boy at a recent concert she gave for kids. Like the rest of the audience, he had been cascaded with bits and bobs of pieces in every style from her vast repertoire of classical, jazz, ragtime, blues, techno, African, etc. He'd coolly watched her dive under the lid of the concert grand to pluck the wires - normally a surefire knockout for kids. Then as she drew breath and invited questions, he piped up: 'Can you play Match of the Day?'\nHow many veterans of the concert hall platform would be floored by such a request? For Joanna MacGregor, though, it was simply a hoot. 'In his eyes, until I played that, I hadn't passed the test. I wasn't a proper pianist.' Needless to say, she sailed through and doubtless logged the experience for her next children's recital.\nMacGregor is rare among top-flight concert pianists for the interest she takes in how young children learn the instrument. She has just published her own elementary piano tutor for children: Joanna MacGregor's Piano World. And she has managed it despite a crippling work schedule.\nThere hardly seems to be a festival this summer she is not gracing. Tomorrow she is in the thick of an all-day collaboration between nine young composers and artists. She runs her own recording label, Sound Circus. And by her own admission, she cannot meet an artist of any sort without being tempted to suggest a joint project. So why on earth take on the extra burden of writing a book?\n'People who know me are clearly surprised. But I think the very first lessons are absolutely crucial. It says a lot about the music profession that we tend to concentrate on the top end, on this idea of the child as nascent virtuoso. Most people's interest in music is much more ordinary and everyday. I find that far more interesting!'\nIn producing the first three books, MacGregor is drawing on vivid experience. Between the ages of 18 and 25, before she was getting concert engagements as a pianist, she taught a stream of beginners the piano. But most important in her make-up now as a musician who is unsurpassed in the breadth of her eclectic repertoire was the endless procession of small boys and girls traipsing into her childhood home, where her mother taught the piano.\n'Not only was I fiddling around at the keyboard, but there were all these other children of all backgrounds wanting to play every sort of music - bits of classical, jazz, pop, improvisation. I wasn't part of that hothouse thing of forcing exceptional talent. I grew up with the idea of trying to make music available to people of all abilities.'\nJust as everyone should be able to learn how to swim or to speak a smattering of French, so, in her view, should everybody be able to make a stab at learning the piano. Some kids have a flair and make rapid progress. She is fascinated by the others: those who chug along at varying rates of progress, enjoying it for a while, but all too often giving up. This falling off happens at any stage. Some kids find the beginning too frustrating. Others rebel further down the line when the stakes get higher and parental pressure is driving them 'to be like those children on the telly.'\n'I worry that some people use music, like sport, as a way of making their children achieve things, rather than just saying: it's music, it's there to enjoy. The reason children fall by the wayside is because they feel they are not going to match up to their parents' expectations.\nThe production of her own training manual begs an obvious question. Does she have a poor opinion of the existing corpus of tutor books, or indeed of the general quality of piano teaching? 'I'm very reluctant to criticise other people's teaching or others' tutor books,' she says. What she does do is readily accept that her books, colourful and eye-catching though they are, are by no means the only books on the market designed to make the first steps enjoyable.\nHer own special wheeze for luring these neophytes, the fives, sixes and sevens, through those bewildering times is to weave a storyline into the books and their accompanying CDs. The challenge at this fragile stage is to make the work interesting. And so, from lesson one, there are accompaniments in a variety of styles for teacher - or parent - to play beneath a child's line. For kids whose parents aren't pianists the accompaniments are recorded on the CDs. Learning should be unadulterated fun, MacGregor insists.\n'You have to allow them to improvise and give them a reason to play at either end of the keyboard and on the black notes and use the pedals.' As progress is made, bigger obstacles loom. Children need to be coaxed quite hard to read the music rather than rely on ear. Having relied for so much of her own childhood on her very keen ear, MacGregor has considerable sympathy on this score.\nBut she believes the single most important factor is practice. How can children be persuaded to play a passage even once again, let alone many times over? She admits to not having practised rigorously until she went to the Royal Academy of Music, where she began building up a contemporary repertoire whose formidable difficulties demanded practice. Now she loves it. The eight hours a day that she gets through are the core of her musical life, she says, more important than performances.\n'I have enormous sympathy with people who find it difficult. I don't think people talk about it enough.' The secret, whether you do it for twenty minutes or five hours, is to work out beforehand what it is you are aiming to do, she says. Other tips: treat yourself - play the whole piece through, however many wrong notes. And mix hard with easy.", 'label': '5'}
{'text': "Enough Sleep?\n\nTiredness, it is often claimed, has become the modern condition. As the richer, busier countries have grown, so sleeplessness and anxiety have also grown in the popular psyche. Research in the USA has found 40 million Americans to be chronically affected, and some recent best-selling novels in Britain have featured insomniacs as protagonists, or sleep-research laboratories as their settings.\nPart of this interest is in sleep in general: in its rhythms, its uses and in problems with sleeping. But a central preoccupation remains. 'People need more sleep,' says one leading sleep researcher. 'People cut back on sleep when they're busy. They get up too early to avoid the rush hour.'\nRecently, a sleep researcher tried an experiment. He offered his subjects the opposite of the modern routine. 'I allowed them to sleep for up to 14 hours a night for a month. It took them three weeks to reach an equilibrium of eight-and-a-quarter hours. That indicates a great rebound of sleep - sleep that they hadn't been getting!'\nIn Europe, such propositions are perhaps most thoroughly tested in a small unassuming building on a university campus in the English Midlands. The university sleep research laboratory has investigated, among many subjects, the effects of fatigue on sailors, the effects of airpot noise on sleepers, and the dangers of motorway driving for flagging drivers.\nFor guinea pigs, they advertise in the student newspapers. Subjects are picked up by taxi, paid PS5 an hour, and asked to adjust their sleeping patterns according to instructions. Dr Louise Reyner provides reassurance: 'Some people are quite worried, because you're putting electrodes on their heads, and they think you can see what they're dreaming or thinking.'\nIn fact, the laboratory's interest is more physical. In a darkened room stands a motorway simulator, the front section of car facing a wide projection screen. The subjects are always told to arrive at 2pm, in the body's natural mid-afternoon lull, after a short night's sleep or no sleep at all. The projector is switched on and they are asked to drive, while answering questions. An endless road rolls ahead, sunlight glares; and the air is warm.\nThe young men all deny they are going to fall asleep. Dr Reyner has a video recording of one trying not to. At first the person at the wheel is very upright, wet and bleary eyes determinedly fixed on the windscreen. Then he begins to blink briefly, every now and again; then for longer, and more often, with a slight drop of the head. Each nod grows heavier than the last. The blinks become a 10-second blackout. Every time, he jerks awake as if nothing has happened. But the car, by the second or third occasion, has shot off the carriageway.\nA coffee might have helped. Two cups, Dr Reyner says, even after no sleep at all, can make you a safe driver for half an hour or more. She recommends a whole basket of alertness products: tablets, energy drinks, caffeinated chewing gum. Shift workers, she is quite sure, could probably use them.\nBut apart from these findings, what else do know about human sleep with any kind of certainty? It is known that humans sleep, like other mammals, according to a daily cycle. Once asleep, they switch between four different stages of unconsciousness, from stage one sleep, the shallowest, to stage four, the deepest. When dreams occur, which is usually during the lightest sleep, the brain paralyses the body except for the hands and eyelids, thus preventing injuries.\nBeyond this, certainties blur into theories. It is often suggested, for example, that sleep repairs body tissue, or restores muscles, or rests the frontal section of the brain that controls speech and creativity. But all of this may happen more quickly during relaxed wakefulness, so no one is really sure.\nHowever, there is a strong degree of certainty among scientists that women seep for half an hour longer than men, and that older people require less sleep, though they don't know why. When asked what sleep is for, some sleep researchers reply in cosmic terms: 'Sleep is a tactic to travel through time without injury.'\nMoreover, people may have had different sleep patterns in the past. A history professor has investigated nocturnal British life between 1500 and 1850 and discovered that sleeping routines were very different. People went to bed at nine or ten, then woke up after midnight, after what they called their 'first sleep', stayed awake for an hour, and then had their 'morning sleep'.\nThe interlude was a haven for reflection, remembering dreams, or even night-time thieving. The poorest were the greatest beneficiaries of this quiet time, fleetingly freed from the constraints and labours that ruled their day-time existence.\nBy the 17th century, however, as artificial light became more common, the rich began to switch to the more concentrated, and economically more efficient, mode of recuperation that we follow today. Two centuries later, the industrial revolution pushed back the dusk for everyone except some country-dwellers, by making most people work longer hours in lighted buildings.\nYet beyond Europe and America, the old pattern was widespread until quite recently, and according to a leading anthropologist, in some non-western settings there are still no rigid bedtimes. People go to bed for a few hours, and then get up again. The idea of a night's solid sleep does not apply. For certain tribal societies, human and animal noises and the need to supervise the fire and watch out for predators combine to make continuous sleep impossible. It seems that people all round the world are badly in need of sleep.", 'label': '5'}
{'text': "Writing by hand and on screen\n\nDr Johnson maintained that 'what is written without effort is in general read without pleasure'. The converse is that good writing comes hard. Looking back though my handwritten school essays I was surprised at how few crossings-out they contained. Today I would have rewritten them five times over. I am sure the reason was that they were physically hard to write. The slowness of the hand disciplined the brain. What would be difficult to alter or erase was written with care. The casual facility of the computer leads to sloppiness. Most writers using word processors find the time spent correcting early drafts more or less equates with the time originally spent on handwritten text.\nEqually, the e-mail, unlike the handwritten letter, is emotionally ponderous. This electronic Eros is said to have revive the art of the love letter. Millions of these missives now flow down the lines, where previously there was only idle chatter. Hurrah for that. At least these e-mails are written, in a sort of English and a sort of grammar: But words printed on a screen pack a monotonous punch. Their writers are often unaccustomed to the power of the written word and tend, in computer jargon, to 'flare'. Their meaning becomes exaggerated and distorted in transmission. And printed words written in haste lack the care and character of handwriting.\n\nThe CD\n\nI put down my cup and went to inspect the CD. The case was disappointing but the rainbow-silver disc inside looked interesting.\n'Wonderful little things, aren't they?' Mr Warriston said, coming back into the room. I agreed, gingerly handing the disc to him. 'Amazing they manage to squeeze seventy minutes of music onto them,' he continued, bending to the hi-fi device. He switched it on and all sorts of lights came on. He pressed a button and a little drawer slid out of the machine. He put the disc inside, pressed the button again and the tray glided back in again. 'Of course, some people say they sound sterile, but I think they...'\n'Do you have to turn them over, like records?' I asked.\n'What? No,' Mr Warriston said, straightening. 'No, you only play one side.'\n'Why?' I asked him.\nHe looked nonplussed, and then thoughtful. 'You know,' he said, 'I've no idea. I don't see why you couldn't make both sides playable and double the capacity...' He stared down at the machine. 'You could have two lasers, or just turn it over by hand... hmm.' He smiled at me. 'Yes, good point.' He nodded over at my wooden chair. 'Anyway. Come on, let's get you sitting in the best place for the stereo effect, eh?'\nI smiled, pleased to have thought of a technical question Mr Warriston could not answer.\n\nBooks versus Electronic Text\n\nIn comparing books and electronic text, the author Malcolm Bradbury was spot on when he said that if matches had been invented after cigarette lighters, we'd have marvelled at the improvement. Most of the propaganda, dazzled by newness, states that electronic text is a change comparable to the invention of printing and that it is already nearly completed. It ignores the fact that shifts in consciousness take generations and such rhetoric falls into the trap of chronocentricity, the egotism that one's own generation sits on the very cusp of history. Take this treasure from Mighty Micro, a book from 1979: 'The 1980s will see the book as we know it, and as our ancestors created and cherished it, begin a slow and steady slide to oblivion.' So far, so wrong. Reading anything lengthy on a screen is such a miserable experience that most never do it and, in any case, the organisation of what resides in computers encourages people to dip into text. Techno-proselytisers have extracted virtue here by claiming that inherent flightiness leads to new forms of narrative and imaginative space. But there's nothing new about 'non-linearity'. Lots of books have never been read from beginning to end - most religious texts, dictionaries and poetry collections spring to mind. What is new is not so much the branchings of electronic text as that computers don't invite the joined-up thinking of reading anything in its entirety.\n\nThe Office\n\nCharles Walked through the office door and into a perfect world of order. The carpet was clear of the paper avalanche which had buried it on the very day it was put down, and the naked desk was dark wood, just as he remembered it from the Sotheby's auction of five weeks ago. Neat file-holders were being put in their proper drawers. Twelve years of trade journals now filled the shelves on one wall.\nKathleen strained to close the door of the filing cabinet and then turned on him. 'You have to go to computers, Charles. This is just too much.'\n'Hello, Kathleen. Oh, this is amazing.' He was admiring the room, its antique furniture. He was not visualising a computer or any other mechanical device in it, not even a pencil sharpener. 'Simply amazing,' he said, altogether skirting the issue of computers.\nOver the two years he had known her, they'd had this conversation many times. She could never understand his resistance to the technology when he was so adept at computers and had even published an important paper on computer-mode giftedness. She had been the inspiration for that paper. Via the keyboard, she could dip her fingers into the stuffing of any software and make it into a new animal that could sit up and bark at the moon if she wished.", 'label': '5'}
{'text': "The Actor's Craft\n\nDerision and contempt are sprayed at actors from time to time. Much of this disdain is fuelled by the actors themselves when they're compelled by their film/theatre companies to talk about their craft (and themselves) in interviews. They should give the dancer Pavlova's reply to the man who asked her what she meant when she was dancing: 'If I could tell you,' she said, 'I wouldn't dance it.' But instead they all too easily fall into ponderous cliches, silly truisms or into the prurient jaws of the gossip machine. We should all pay heed to what Paul Scofield said in a letter to a friend of mine: 'I have found that an actor's work has life and interest only in its execution. It seems to wither away in discussion and become emptily theoretical and insubstantial. It has no rules (except perhaps audibility). With every play and every playwright the actor starts from scratch, as if he or she knows nothing and proceeds to learn afresh every time growing with the relationships of the characters and the insights of the writer. When the play has finished its run, he's empty until the next time. And its the emptiness which is, I find, apparent in any discussion of theatre work.'\n\nA review of Hamlet\n\nAdrian Lester's Hamlet is poised precariously between boyhood and manhood, and it is a performance of thrilling simplicity and assurance. His handling of the text and his physical and psychological self-control take him, in one leap, from brilliantly promising to frontline player: an actor with the intelligent confidence to be almost self-effacing. Lester plays an edgy, tetchy young man who feeds on a banked-down sense of anger, agile, watchful and driven, he deploys a sense of acid wit and generous humour that makes him both formidable and lovable. Although played down, the virtuosity of this performance is unmistakable. Observe Lester's body, the way his arms hang stiffly, giving you a sense of a figure waiting to be animated. Handy's portrayal of Horatio gives you a similar feeling of a body being moved by an inner force that he both knows and does not know. So what is acting? What is behaviour? Is the former an imitation or an evocation of the latter? Who and what animates these bodies, morally and physically? That is the central question about the life of the theatre.\n\nOne director's approach to rehearsal\n\nThe first stage of this director's rehearsal process is known as 'dropping in', a procedure which goes something like this. The stage manager projects the script onto a screen. The actors sit quietly while someone else is speaking, finding out what effect the words are having. When if is their turn to speak, they glance of the screen, digest the first phrase, think about what it means to them, wait to find the impulse - the reason to speak - then speak. For example, the line is, 'Queuing all night, the rain, do you remember?; Breathe. Let the thought drop in with your breath. A memory, a vision, an impression. Some people will imagine a queue, maybe at a bus stop on the way to rehearsals or for a rock concert in their youth. Having visualised the scene, find the impulse to speak it - what this director calls 'The pathway to the line'. Impulses can come from without or within. Look in the eyes of the other actor listening. Consider your character's situation. This director talks of 'dropping in' as a means of finding out what is going on. Don't pre-plan or pre-judge. Dare to go down there with an empty mind and trust that something will happen to you.\n\nThe Perfect Theatre\n\nThe perfect theatre should make you feel as if your presence has made a difference. Going to the theatre, going to any live performance, is an event and the staff need to have a sense of that, too. It's terribly alienating if you feel that its just any old job for the people working front of house.\nThe theatre itself needs to create a relationship between the performer and the audience - no one in the audience should feel that they're getting an unreasonably prejudiced view of the actor. It's important that they're not too far away, they can hear, they can see, they can feel in some sense in contact with what's going on on stage. The proportions of an auditorium are important. They have to respond to the human voice and the scale of the human body. If an auditorium dwarfs the human body, there's something wrong with it because you can't deny the human form at the heart of drama. A lot of theatres in the late nineteenth century got it right because they managed to shape an auditorium that somehow embraces the stage.\nI like theatres that have a sense of the past in them. Like worn stone steps in a church, you get the sense of layers of human presence. From the point of view of the plays, you can't have something for everybody. You cant second-guess an audience because they don't know what they're going to want to see. When you visit the theatre, you want something done in a way you can't imagine, otherwise you may as well have stayed at home.", 'label': '5'}
{'text': "Heritage\n\nThe true meaning and significance of heritage is that it gives people and communities a genuine sense of connection with the past. Obviously, we feel connected to our personal heritage usually, we know who and what our grandparents were, and we will have heard stories about how they lived. But, beyond that, there is a wider basic need to learn about our past, in order to help us understand and interpret our individual and national futures. Heritage represents a fundamental desire for continuity - assurance about the past goes a long way to assuring our future. It is through this continuity that we achieve our own place in history, our own immortality.\nIn the same way that you inherit your genes, you also inherit a culture which has been passed down through many generations. There are aspects of your national heritage that you may not like or condone, but it is yours, and it is reassuring to feel a part of something.\nHeritage has a phenomenal amount to teach us and, I would say, is imperative for our well-being. It affects everything from customs to material culture. Traditionally, our link with the past was through the stories and legends passed down by our ancestors. But, because Western industrial society broke up communities and families, much of that oral tradition has already been lost. Instead, places and architectural 'memories' give us clues to our past. It is vitally important to conserve and restore these links as a testament to our ancestors' identity.\n\nThe Fens\n\nSome while ago I began a novel, Waterland, in which, though I did not know it then, the landscape of that part of England known as the Pens was to play a major part. Since the novel was published I have often been asked why, as an ignorant and perhaps presumptuous Londoner, I chose to write about a part of the country with which I have no personal connection. The short answer is that I chose the Fens because of their apparent unobtrusiveness -- a flat and empty stage on which to set the drama of my book. This, as I learnt, was merely theory. The Fens, once one's imagination has got to grips with them, are neither flat nor empty. What I discovered was that the Fens, while as richly English as any other part of England, are also compellingly and hauntingly strange. It is remarkable that there should still exist in the middle of England a region which most English people find peculiarly foreign, especially when so many other distinctive (and remoter) areas of Britain have been ingested into the nations cultural and literary heritage. The Fens are both empty and brimming, both cultivated and tenaciously wild, apparently 'open' and 'obvious' yet profoundly mysterious.\nMy own physical researches while writing my novel were in fact not so extensive. I have never been, yet, to Wisbech or Prickwillow. As a writer of fiction I am interested in imagined worlds, and I would much rather hazard an inspired guess at some point of authenticity than go for documentary proof. Yet this very attempt to 'imagine' the Fens has its special logic, for, as the pages of Edward Storey's scholarly book abundantly show, the Fens are, peculiarly, not just a landscape but a state of mind.\n\nMuseums\n\nMuseums must make their collections accessible. In the past, this simply meant packing them into display cases, often with wordy labels that made little concession to the lay person. Nowadays, accessibility should demand more than this. Displays can be lively and interesting, making the best use of theatrical or architectural techniques to capture visitors' attention and perhaps stimulate emotional response. But museums should be about more than their displays. They should make their collections accessible to the widest possible community. The provision of loan boxes of objects for class teachers is one known example of this and, recently, this principle has been extended by some museums so that similar material is made available for use in treating elderly people who are losing their memory.\nMuseums concern themselves with 'artefacts and specimens' - not replicas. They exist to facilitate an encounter with authenticity. They present items that actually existed - were used - had meaning - at some historical time. This is their great strength, and is what distinguishes them from heritage centres and theme parks, books and CD-ROMs. Museums which rise to the challenge which this distinction implies and provide exciting and accessible displays, catalogues and outreach programmes, will find that their apparent competitors in 'virtual history' are in fact their allies, stimulating an appetite for the 'real thing' that museums are uniquely placed to satisfy.\n\nArchitecture and Environment\n\nThe desire to preserve things is not new, but now change in our towns comes with such speed and on such a scale that most of us are affected by it in some way. It turns some people into rabid preservationists and it encourages others to think more closely about the nature of towns as we know them today and their future.\nIt may be quite reasonably argued that the generations who have lived through events such as world wars and the like are more inclined to preservation than their predecessors - anything which expresses stability becomes important. If there is a psychological need for preservation it is part of the planners job to take account of it.\nChange is no enemy if we learn how to handle it. Physical change, in other words, change in the environment provided by our towns, reflects social change - change in our numbers, in our welfare and in our demands.", 'label': '5'}
{'text': "There are some activities that just will not be rushed. They take the time they take. If you are late for a meeting, you can hurry. But if you are impatient with the mayonnaise and add the oil too quickly, it curdles. If you start tugging with frustration on a tangled fishing line, the knot just becomes tighter.\nThe mind, too, works at different speeds. Some of its functions are performed at lightning speeds; others take seconds, minutes, hours, days or even years to complete their course. Some can he speeded up - we can become quicker at solving crossword puzzles or doing mental arithmetic. But others cannot he rushed, and if they are, then they will break down, like the mayonnaise, or get tangled up, like the fishing line. 'Think fast; we need the results' may sometimes be as absurd a notion, or at least as counterproductive, as the attempt to cram a night's rest into half the time. We learn, think and know in a variety of ways, and these modes of the mind operate at different speeds, and are good for different mental jobs. 'He who hesitates is lost,' says one proverb. 'Look before you leap,' says another. And both are true.\nRoughly speaking, the mind possesses three different processing speeds. The first is faster than thought. Some situations demand an unselfconscious, instantaneous reaction. When my motorbike skidded on a wet road in London some years ago, my brain and my body immediately choreographed for me an intricate and effective set of movements that enabled me to keep my seat - and it was only after the action was all over that my conscious mind and my emotions started to catch up. Neither a concert pianist nor an Olympic fencer has time to figure out what to do next. There is a kind of 'intelligence' that works more rapidly than thinking. This mode of fast physical intelligence could be called our 'wits'. (The five senses were originally known as 'the five wits'.)\nThen there is thought itself: the sort of intelligence which does involve figuring matters out, weighing up the pros and cons, constructing arguments and solving problems. A mechanic working out why an engine will not fire, a scientist trying to interpret an intriguing experimental result, a student wrestling with an assignment: all are employing a way of knowing that relies on reason and logic, on deliberate conscious thinking. We often call this kind of intelligence 'intellect'. Someone who is good at solving these sorts of problems we call 'bright' or 'clever'. But below this, there is another mental register that proceeds more slowly still. It is often less purposeful and clear-cut, more playful, leisurely or dreamy. In this mode we are ruminating or mulling things over; being contemplative or meditative. Perched on a seaside rock, lost in the sound and the motion of the surf, or hovering just on the brink of sleep or waking, we are in a different mental mode from the one we find ourselves in as we plan a meal or dictate a letter. This leisurely, apparently aimless, way of knowing and experiencing is just as intelligent as the other faster ones. Allowing the mind time to meander is not a luxury that can safely be cut back as life or work gets more demanding. On the contrary, thinking slowly is a vital part al the cognitive armoury. We need the tortoise mind just as much as we need the hare brain.\nSome kinds of everyday predicament are better, more effectively approached with a slow mind. Some mysteries can only be penetrated with a relaxed, unquesting mental attitude. Recent scientific study shows convincingly that the more patient, less deliberate modes of mind are particularly suited to making sense of situations that are intricate, shadowy or ill defined. Deliberate thinking works well when the problem is easily conceptualised. When we are trying to decide where to spend our holidays, it may well be perfectly obvious what the parameters are. But when we are not sure what needs to be taken into account, or even which questions to pose - or when the issue is too subtle to be captured by the familiar categories of conscious thought - we need recourse to the tortoise mind. If the problem is how best to manage a difficult group of people at work, or whether to give up being a manager completely and retrain as a teacher, we may be better advised to sit and ponder than to search frantically for explanations and solutions. This type of intelligence is associated with what we call creativity, or even 'wisdom'.\nPoets have always known the limitations of conscious, deliberate thinking, and have sought to cultivate these slower, mistier ways of knowing. Philosophers have written about the realms of the mind that lie beyond and beneath the conscious intellect. It is only recently, however, that scientists have started to explore directly the slower, less deliberate ways of knowing. The hybrid discipline of 'cognitive science' is revealing that the unconscious realms of the human mind will successfully accomplish a number of unusual, interesting and important tasks if they are given the time. They will learn patterns of a degree of subtlety which normal consciousness cannot even see, make sense out of situations that are too complex to analyse, and get to the bottom of certain difficult issues much more successfully than the questing intellect.\n\n", 'label': '5'}
{'text': 'Einstein\n\nStop anyone in the street and ask them to name a scientist, and the chances are they\'ll think of Albert Einstein. His face is used to advertise products with intellectual connotations, from computers to encyclopaedias.\nMost people know little of what Einstein did, except that he developed some mysterious theories under the heading \'relativity\', which are famous for being incomprehensible, and for coming up with bizarre predictions that run counter to everyday experience.\nEinstein was part of a gigantic leap forward in scientific thinking, an intellectual revolution that heralded the birth of twentieth century science. Physicists and mathematicians were trying to create a new, more rational description of the universe by studying relationships between matter and the forces of nature.\nEinstein made his profound and far-reaching contributions simply by looking again at the nature of the fundamentals: time, space, matter and energy. Previous descriptions had depended on Isaac Newton\'s view of a universe in which stars and planets moved in an absolute framework of space and time. Einstein overthrew this notion, saying that time and space were not absolute but relative.\n\nYoung Readers\n\nThroughout our childhoods, Lydia and I distrusted any prize-winning book because we knew it would be worthy; and for \'worthy\', read \'boring\', we thought.\nWhile our mother had been inclined to abhor our philistinism in tones of despising innuendo, our father would cheerfully dish us out tenpences, chapter by chapter, as inducements to make us cast our eyes over the occasional improving volume. Or he would slip the odd superior book in amongst our Christmas and birthday presents, labelled in bold marker pen, \'This Book is NOT Literature\'. Though we dismissed most of his offerings as \'boys\' books\', he did, in this way, expose us to some shorter works of decent fiction and, just once, to a well-known anthology of verse.\n\nLanguage\n\n\'The origin of human language is truly secret and marvellous\', wrote Jacob Grimm in 1851. The marvellous secret has long proved a launch pad for strange ideas. \'Primitive man was likely to make sounds like "meuh" when sensing danger,\' claimed Charles Caller in 1928. "Meuh" has a plaintive sound. The human who wandered over a hostile land inhabited by awesome beasts uttered desperate noises, and languages have preserved some echo of his lamentation such as malaria meaning "fever" or the Latin mors meaning "death".\nFaced with such weird speculations, many avoided the topic, regarding it as a playground for cranks, but recently, language origin and evolution have become key research areas. Language probably developed in East Africa, around 100,000 years ago. In the main speech was used for friendly interaction, and was an important tool in power struggles. Information-swapping was probably not an important original role - contrary to the views of philosopher John Locke, who spoke of language as a \'great conduit\' for conveying knowledge.', 'label': '5'}
{'text': "Language\n\nYou and I belong to a species with a remarkable ability, we can shape events in each others brains with exquisite precision. Language is so tightly woven into human experience that it is scarcely possible to imagine life without it. Chances are that if you find two or more people together anywhere on earth, they will soon be exchanging words. When there is no one to talk with, people talk to themselves, to their dogs, even to their plants. I like to describe the skill of language as an 'instinct'. This conveys the idea that people know how to talk in more or less the sense that spiders know how to spin webs. Web-spinning was not invented by some unsung spider genius, and does not depend on having had the right education or on having an aptitude for architecture or the construction trades.\n\nClimate and Weather\n\nClimate and weather, which are mainly created by the air around us, profoundly affect the lives and distribution of animals and plants. Climate can be a dominating force on the character of landscapes. For example, warmth and wetness all the year round allow the growth of tropical jungles, which are natural treasure troves, with an incredible diversity of species. Conversely cold, windswept areas can muster only a scattered selection of living things. The daily weather patterns that add up in the long term to the climate are caused by great masses of air rising and mixing, for the atmosphere is never still. Some of the motion is due to the fact that the envelope of gases rests on a spinning globe, because air is thin it is not dragged along at the same speed as the earth, but tends to lag behind. A more important source of turbulence, or air movement, however, is the sun.\n\nCoffee\n\nMy duties as bar-person included serving drinks but, more worryingly, I was to be responsible for making coffee. In Lygon Street, Melbourne, a restaurant can stand or fall on its coffee reputation. There followed several days of intensive coffee-making training, in which I took in more than I could ever wish to know about the cleaning and maintenance of the restaurants gleaming espresso machine. I learnt, too, about the essential principles involved in making the perfect cup of rich, frothy cappuccino. By the end of the first week I had to admit that making a decent cup of coffee was not as easy as it looked and I fully expected to be banished to lowly ash-tray wiping duties again. Luckily, my boss was a patient man. 'Making coffee is both an art and a science,' he said, 'and you need time to acquire the knack.'", 'label': '5'}
{'text': "Air-conditioning\n\nThere is a chill in the air at Cannons Gym, a favourite lunch-time haunt for City of London workers. To deal with this summer's unusually high temperatures, the fitness centre has gone overboard with the air-conditioning. So much so, in fact, that at quiet times, the gym feels like somewhere in the Arctic. This is just one example of how the modern world casually misuses air-conditioning. It has become a central feature of work and play, a potent symbol of the ability of humanity to control the climate, or at least modify it.\nMany air-conditioned buildings, however, could employ other methods of cooling. They could take advantage of daylight and natural ventilation and have thicker walls that absorb less heat during the day and radiate it away at night. These measures may sound obvious, but they can have telling results and would considerably reduce the need for air-conditioning.\n\nSundials\n\nIt is surely more than coincidence that the beginning of a new millennium is being accompanied by renewed interest in sundials: instruments used to measure time according to the position of the sun. A hundred years ago, they were a vital time-keeping device, essential for anyone who hoped to keep their clocks working accurately. Then, as clocks and watches became more sophisticated and reliable, the sundial was relegated to the status of garden ornament - a romantic and intriguing ornament, but nonetheless an anachronism, in a brave new technological age. Now the clock has been turned back and they are again being taken seriously.\nDavid Harber, a sundial maker, believes that their appeal lies in their direct link with the planets. He says that when he delivers one, there is a moment of magic when it starts working. They are still, calm, romantic objects that remind us of our place in the cosmos.\n\nPaint Your Own China\n\nMy image of china-painting stemmed from a visit, long ago, to an arts and crafts exhibition where stern-looking grey-haired ladies demonstrated how to cover a teacup with delicate flowers using a series of deft brushstrokes. The spectacle was riveting, because each stroke formed a perfect petal or leaf. Their hands never wobbled, the paint never smudged, and the observer might have concluded that these women had either been practising their art for decades or had been born with an extraordinary talent for steady precision.\nMindful of this experience, I wondered what kind of people would have the courage to enrol on a course in china-painting. Would even the beginners display an intuitive artistry? In fact, the atmosphere turned out to be far from intimidating. The students were all there to have fun and not even the tutor wanted to paint petals on teacups with the robotic rapidity I had remembered.", 'label': '5'}
{'text': "Vervet monkeys\n\nCheney and Seyfarth describe how one day the dominant male in the group of vervet monkeys they were studying noticed a strange male hanging around in a neighbouring grove of trees. The stranger's intentions were quite obvious: he was sizing up the group in order to join it. If he succeeded, it was more than likely that the incumbent male would be ousted from his position of privilege. With the vervet equivalent of a stroke of genius, the male hit on the ideal ploy to keep the stranger away from his group. As soon as the strange male descended from the grove of trees to try to cross the open ground that separated his grove from the one in which the group was feeding, he gave an alarm call that vervets use to signal the sighting of a leopard nearby. The stranger shot back into the safety of his trees. As the day wore on, this was repeated every time the stranger made a move in the groups direction. All was going swimmingly until the male made a crucial mistake: after successfully using the ploy several times, he gave the leopard alarm call while himself nonchalantly walking across open ground.\n\nWhat Cats Catch\n\nIn a recent survey, people in the 173-household English village of Felmersham collected their cats' prey. Over one year their seventy cats produced over 1,000 prey items. A professor in America saw these figures and worked out that on this basis the cat population of Britain must be killing 100 million birds and small mammals each year!\nThe mesmeric effect of big numbers seems to have stultified reason. It is not realistic just to multiply the number of catches of these rural cats by the entire cat population of Britain. Most cats are town cats with small ranges, and catch fewer items of prey than the cats in this survey. The key question should have been this: are the numbers sustainable? The answer would seem to be yes.\nIn winter many householders feed birds, while garden trees and buildings provide nesting sites, and in this way the bird population is kept at well above 'natural' levels. The survey found that the cat is a significant predator, but not that it is devastating Britain's bird population.\n\nBuffalo's Day\n\nThe buffaloes are, as it were, the marshman's lifeline, and they are cherished accordingly. At each dawn the buffaloes, who have been sleeping on the buffalo platform or quite frequently round the fire with their owners, leave, infinitely slowly and wearily, their wallowing progress continually punctuated with despairing groans, for the distant reed beds beyond the open water. For a long time they stand on the edge of the platform, groaning to each other of the infinite fatigue of the coming day, until at last the leader takes a ponderous pace forward and subsides into the water.\nOnce in the water a deep lassitude once more descends upon the party, as if they had by now forgotten their intention and they may wallow there with low notes of complaint for many minutes. The movements that at length remove them from the immediate vicinity of the house are so gradual as to pass practically unnoticed, but finally they are swimming, so low in the water that their noses seem held above it by a last effort of ebbing strength, their rolling eyes proclaiming that this is the end at last and that they are drowning. So, patient and protesting and more or less submerged, they spend the day among the reeds and the bulrushes, grazing leisurely upon such green shoots as their antediluvian heads may find at eye level.\n\nPICASSO, Pablo \n\nThe soles 1940 Oil on canvas Scottish National Gallery of Modern Art\n\nPicasso tended to paint those things that surrounded him, and in the early spring of 1940, he painted several fish still lifes while he was staying in the fishing port of Royan. The ostensible subject of the painting is a fishmonger's slab with a crab, and a pair of scales containing two or three soles. In spite of their predicament these sea creatures look very much still alive. It is not very easy to read the painting because Picasso has treated the composition in terms of a flat pattern of overlapping and interlocking transparent planes. This, the thin delicately brushed paint, and the cool, undemonstrative colours give the painting the appearance of an underwater world of slow-moving calm and harmony. But this is disturbed by what seems to be an impending battle between the fish, baring their teeth, and the crab, with its open claws. Those sharp, pointed forms are echoed by the scales. Even the chain going round one of the fish takes on a more sinister aspect. There is an undercurrent of menace and barely suppressed violence that gives the picture a symbolic edge.\n", 'label': '5'}
{'text': "Love them, fear them, worship them, human culture has always had a lot to say about birds.\nBut what does that say about us? Paul Evans reports\n\nThere's a bump, bump, bump coming from the greenhouse as a little brown shuttlecock bounces against the glass. It turns out to be a wren: an ominous bird, a bird of portent, augury and divination. Is it spelling out some sort of message from a world at the very edges of my imagination? Or is it just a poor bird stuck in a greenhouse?\nDepending on your point of view, both could be true. Wrens have been flitting through the undergrowth of British culture ever since it began. In medieval times, a complicated system of observing the directions in which wrens flew determined the sort of luck the observer would experience. In modern times, the image of the wren remains in pictures and ceramics in many British households. Even though the early beliefs may have been watered down or even forgotten, the wren still has a perch in our consciousness and a nest in our affections. A wood without wrens is a sad, impoverished place.\nThis is almost certainly because there is a rich vein of folklore running through our relationships with many birds which reaches back to a time when people read the world around them differently. Where people are, necessarily, hitched more directly to natural processes for their very survival, they develop an ecological and cultural language through which the significance of other creatures is communicated. This significance is, of course, prone to cultural shifts that cause major image changes for the creatures involved. A good example of this is the red kite. During the early sixteenth century, foreign visitors to London were amazed to see red kites swooping down to take bread from the hands of children. These birds were protected and valued urban scavengers. But it was not long before they began to be seen as vermin, and as a result were soon wiped out in most areas apart from Wales. Gradually red kites began to assume a romantic personality linked to this Celtic stronghold and they have now become totemic birds of British conservation, protected again and reintroduced with a view to helping them regain their original distribution.\nOur relationship with other creatures is more than cultural and goes way back to the evolution of human nature. Though the first human birdwatchers may have been acutely observant of bird behaviour because it announced approaching predators, bad weather and the availability of food, and also offered a supernatural link to the world of their dreams, there is more to it. When we ask why birds are so important to us, we are also asking what it is to be us. Flight, song, freedom - our fascination, envy and emulation of the avian world is surely a measure of our own identity against that of the wildness of nature. Some might dismiss these feelings as vestigial attachments, useful to us in an earlier phase of our evolution, irrelevant now. But, like the appendix and wisdom teeth, they're still very much part of us and losing them is traumatic.\nThat is probably why, in recent years, birds have become the barometers of environmental change, indicators of ecological quality: the warning bells of environmentalism. Conservationists in Britain cite the endangering of 30 species, a figure that is depressing not only because it spells out the loss of feathered curiosities, but because it is a massive cultural loss too.These birds carry a huge amount of cultural baggage. For example, the skylark, turtle dove and lapwing signify spiritual love, romantic love and magic. Anyone who has read Shelley's poems, Shakespeare's sonnets and Robert Graves's The White Goddess will feel more than a tug of remorse at the loss of these once commonplace birds.\nYet while the loss of these birds is lamented, the loss of others which don't figure in either literature or folklore is virtually ignored. Folklore is so important. The stories, legends and rhymes which persist through time, with their obscure origins, constant revisions and reinventions, somehow have a greater living bond with their subjects than cold, scientific terms a bond that is strengthened by the everyday language in which they are understood and communicated. This gives them a power to summon up feelings and attitudes from a consciousness buried under all the stuff of modern life.\nWhether we watch wildlife films on TV or birdtables in the backyard, what were doing and the excitement we get from what we see cannot adequately be captured by scientific reason. Birds are engaging in ways we still find hard to fathom, let alone articulate, and so the stories we tell about them seem like ways of interpreting what birds are telling us.\nThe wren in the greenhouse weaves an intricate knot, tying an imaginary thread between the here and now and a deep, distant history, holding the free end in its song and escaping into the future - a riddle that keeps me guessing.\n", 'label': '5'}
{'text': 'CRYING \n\nCharles Darwin thought that the human tendency to cry had no obvious evolving purpose. He was almost certainly wrong. More recently scientists have pointed to its social significance, with psychiatrist John Bowlby highlighting the role of crying in developing the attachment between mother and child. Many believe that tears, at least during childhood, are mainly an expression of helplessness. However, the persistence of crying into adulthood is harder to explain. It seems that the sound of crying becomes considerably less important than the visual signal it conveys. It may have been advantageous to early human communities as a means of promoting trust and social connectedness. \nTears can undoubtedly have other causes too. We may cry to express sympathy for those suffering terrible injustice. Furthermore, tears can be shed involuntarily, rather to our embarrassment, when we hear inspiring music or moving speeches. We may cry when watching a sentimental film, but interestingly, this is more likely to occur in company than when we are alone. The social function of crying would seem to be undeniable, but research continues. \n\n', 'label': '5'}
{'text': "Food\n\nThere is something very elemental and satisfying about our relationship with food. I know\nI may be preaching to the converted, because presumably people keen on cooking buy cookery books like this one, but so often we imagine that, unless it is some special occasion or an especially elaborate dish, it is hardly worth attempting. Not so. Just by throwing a few roughly chopped carrots, a leek, some celery and a few herbs into water you will get the most delicious soup. This is much more satisfying than buying a packet or opening a tin. Instead of buying an over-sweet chocolate mousse full of preservatives, emulsifiers and additives, in five minutes you can turn out the most delicious confection that both grown-ups and children will love.\nCooking is also an offering, and it is a gesture of care and love to bring once own creation, however humble or simple, to the table. Sharing food is so rich in symbolism, of our deepest human needs, that it is hardly surprising all our festivities and celebrations take place around tables, be they birthdays, anniversaries, engagements or whatever! No one would have a takeaway for a wedding or anniversary party! Nor would many people wish to have a business deal discussed over tinned soup.\n\nIn the Elevator\n\nThis morning, Alistair had made a stab at straightening up his office, but correspondence still littered every surface. Quarterly tax forms, state and federal, bulged out of desk drawers and cardboard boxes, all waiting on a day when he was in the filing mode. And then there was all the added paperwork that went along with owning an apartment building. The hundred-odd books and a few years' worth of journals were only in proximity to the new bookshelves.\nAs the elevator bore him closer to his floor, he knew that Mallory would be on time for their appointment. She would be knocking on the door of his empty office on the hour, not a second before or after. She was as compulsive about time as she was about neatness.\nHow would she react to the mess? She might assume he'd been vandalised. He could walk in behind her and feign shock.\nMrs Wilson, his cleaning woman, had arrived while he was scrambling around on the floor, trying desperately to clear a few square feet of the carpet. Putting his head out of the office door as she was turning her key in the lock of his apartment, he had smiled at her, his eyes filled with hope. Her own eyes had turned hard. Fat chance I'm going in there, said the back of her head as she had disappeared into his residence, which was her territory and all that she might be held accountable for.\nHe knew Mrs Wilson believed him to be a visitor from somewhere else, perhaps some point straight up, miles out, but nowhere on the surface of her own earth, which was square and shaped by the streets of Brooklyn.\n\nKAREN\n\nIt was a simple desire - not to be like her mother - that led Karen to create her own story, her own mythology, a mythology of difference and strength. Tn the tale that she constructed for herself, there were significant moments in her progress; such as the day she was twelve years old and her brother quick-swung a golf club behind him and hit her full in the eye. At the first moment of impact, she was convinced of immediate blindness. But the bone hod protected her, as the doctor from the high-walled house later assured her. The golf club had clean missed the eye and she was left with only a few stitches that healed to a pole drawing of past suffering. When she opened her eyes in the doctor's white-walled consulting room, overlooking the tennis courts, ond saw her mother clear before her, muttering predictably and paradoxically about both miracles and small mercies, she knew that she was saved for some purpose.\n\nMiss Fogerty\n\nMiss Fogerty, returning briskly to her duties across the wet grass of the village green, was both excited and saddened by the scene she had just witnessed. It is always exhilarating to be the first to know something of note, particularly in a small community, and Miss Fogerty's quiet life held little excitement. On the other hand, her grief for Dr Bailey's condition was overwhelming. He has attended her for many years and she remembered with gratitude his concern for her annual bouts of laryngitis which were, fortunately, about the only troubles for which she had to consult him.\nHis most valuable quality, Miss Fogerty considered, was his making one feel that there was always plenty of time, and that he truly wished to hear about his patients' fears and perplexities. It was this quality, above all others, which had so endeared the good doctor to the village and its environs. He had always been prepared to give -- of his time, of his knowledge, and of his humour. His reward had been outstanding loyalty and affection.", 'label': '5'}
{'text': "THE WELL\n\nI had read somewhere that from a sufficiently deep hole, one could see the stars, if the day were clear. I had persuaded you to help me with my scheme; you watched, eyes wide, fist to mouth, as I winched up the well bucket, steadied it on the wall and then climbed in. I told you to let me down. I had not thought to allow for the bucket's much increased weight, your lack of strength or inclination to just stand back and let what would happen, happen. You held the handle, taking some of the strain as I pushed the bucket off the side of the well's stone surround. Freed of the wall's support, I plunged immediately. You gave a little shriek and made one attempt to brake the handle, then you let it go. I fell into the well. I cracked my head.\nIt did not occur to me then that I had succeeded, in a sense, in my plan. What I saw were lights, strange, inchoate and bizarre. It was only later that I connected the visual symptoms of that fall and impact with the stylised stars and planets I was used to seeing drawn in a cartoon panel whenever a comic character suffered a similar whack.\nAt the time I was at first just dazed, then frightened, then relieved, then finally both angry at you for letting me fall and afraid of what Mother would say. You called down, asking if I was all right. I opened my mouth to shout, and then you called again, a note of rising panic in your voice, and with those words stopped mine in my throat. I lay still, eyelids cracked enough to watch you through the foliage of lashes. You disappeared, calling out for help. I waited a moment, then quickly hauled and pushed my way to the top, then pulled myself over the edge and landed on the courtyard cobbles.\nI could hear raised, alarmed voices coming from the castle's main door. I ran the opposite way, down to the passage leading to the moat bridge, and hid in the shadows there.\nMother and Father both appeared along with you and old Arthur; Mother shrieked, flapping her hands. Father shouted and told Arthur to haul on the winch handle. You stood back, looking pale and shocked, watching. I was bowed in the shadows. A fire of fierce elation filled me. Then I saw the line of drops I'd left, from the well to where I now stood. I looked in horror at the spots, dark coins of dirty well water fallen from my soaking clothes on to the dry, grey cobbles. At my feet, in the darkness, the water had formed a little pool.\nI looked back into the courtyard, to where Father was now shining a flashlight down into the well and peering into the gloom. The drops I had left shone in the sunlight. I could not believe that nobody had seen them. Mother was screaming hysterically now, a sharp, jarring noise that I had never heard before. It shook my soul, suffused my conscience. What was I to do? I had had my revenge on you, but where did I go from here?\nThis had quickly become more serious than I'd anticipated, escalating with dizzying rapidity from a great prank born of a brilliant brainwave to something that would not be put to rest without some serious, painful and lasting punishment being inflicted on somebody, almost certainly myself. I cursed myself for not thinking this through. From crafty plan, to downfall, to wheeze, to calamity; all in a few minutes.\nThe plan came to me like a lifebelt to a drowning man. I gathered all my courage and left my hiding place, coming staggering out and blinking. I cried out faintly, one hand to my brow, then yelled out a little louder when my first cry went unheeded. I stumbled on a little further, then collapsed dramatically on the cobbles.\nSitting up, comforted, my head in my weeping mother's bosom, I went 'Phew' and said 'Oh dear' and smiled bravely and claimed that I had found a secret tunnel from the bottom of the well to the moat, and crawled and swum along it until I got out, climbed up the bridge and tottered, exhausted, through the passageway.\nTo this day I think I was almost getting away with it until Father appeared squatting in front of me. He had me repeat my story. I did so, hesitating. His eyes narrowed.\nThinking I was plugging a gap, in fact only adding another log to my pyre, I said that the secret passage had fallen in after me; there wouldn't be any point in, say, sending somebody down to look for it. In fact the whole well was dangerous. I'd barely escaped with my life. I looked into my father's eyes and it was like looking into a dark tunnel with no stars at the end.\nIt was as though he was seeing me for the first time, and as though I was looking down a secret passage through time, to an adult perspective, to the way the world and cocky, lying children's stories would look to me when I was his age.\nMy words died in my throat. 'Don't be ridiculous, boy,' he said, investing more contempt in those few words than I'd have thought a whole language capable of conveying. He rose smoothly to his feet and walked away.\nArthur looked down at me, his expression regretful and troubled, shaking his head or looking like he wanted to, not because I had had a terrifying adventure and then been unjustly disbelieved by my own father, but because he too could see through my forlorn and hapless lie, and worried for the soul, the character, the future moral standing of any child so shameless - and so incompetent - in its too easily resorted-to lying.\nIn that pity was a rebuke as severe and wounding as that my father had administered, and in as much that it confirmed that this was the mature judgement of my actions and my father's, not some aberration I might be able to discount or ignore, it affected me even more profoundly.", 'label': '5'}
{'text': "Ralph unlocked the door to his let and as he entered the dark, motionless hall experienced that momentary qualm of ownership which even after three years still lightly besieged him sometimes when he returned alone at the end of the day. When he had first bought the flat, he used to come home in an eager, questioning mood - often as early as he could -- wondering what it had been doing during the hours he had been away. It had represented a form of welcome to him, a region in which his focus was undisputed and reliable. He supposed that he should have worried about intruders or burst drains in that moment of reunion, but his flat had always been sitting waiting for him with an expression of independence or of neglect, depending on whether he'd left it tidy or not. In the end he had begun to regard it merely as another cloistered annexe of himself, a space into which the stuffy chambers of his heart and head had gradually overspilled their contents.\nHe had grown impatient with its inability to be transformed. There was, of course, the small, angular puddle of letters which sometimes gathered by the door and the red eye of the answering machine which could occasionally be found resuscitated and blinking with life when he returned. And he was grateful that the glassy eyes of his windows hadn't been smashed nor the contents ravished with violence, mind you, he wondered what the flat would look like afterwards.\nFrom the dreary distance of his shabby third-floor office on the Holloway Road, Ralph often looked forward to his three or four solitary evenings at home each week. Once he had fled the fabricated world of the office and felt the memory of himself begin patchily to return on his bus journey home, he no longer needed to be on his own, a fact which seemed continually to elude him in his social calculations. Sitting exposed at his desk he would crave isolation, unlimited time alone amongst his possessions, but the relief of escape drained him and he would vainly wait for some sense of selfhood to return. Instead, there was merely a resounding emptiness, which made him suspect during his long hours of loneliness that the alien exercise of doing work which did not suit him had forced him to change, moving him further and further from what he liked to think of as himself. He would often read or listen to music as the night deepened outside, familiar habits which now, however, he would find himself asking for whom or what he did them. His points of reference had grown dim, his signposts muddied: sensations and ideas would arrive and then get lost, circulating around the junctions of his mind, unable to find a connection.\nThere had been a time, he supposed, when he had not felt this powerless, when, had he but perceived his own worth, he might have escaped; but he had been so eager to fix himself up with something that he had been swept along by this great desire for something, and he had followed the first course which presented itself as if it had been ordained that he should do so.\nHe had tried, of course, after he left university, to formulate some plan for his own betterment, but it hadn't really surprised him to find, when he searched himself for ambition, merely the desire unobtrusively to survive. He had applied for the types of jobs which had become familiar to him though the talk of his peers, had latched himself wearily on to their futures and jogged behind as they rushed towards them, unable to imagine that he might be put to some use which would manufacture as its by-product his own happiness.\nHe had attended his only interview gratefully, and in the fever of examination did not think to test the position - an inexplicit editorial role on a free local newspaper for its own merits. Relieved at having pulled off twenty minutes of pleasant conversation with Neil, his boss, he had not considered the future of lengthy encounters by which he was now daily assaulted. Neil had offered him the job there and then, telling him he was the only graduate who had applied; a revelation which at the time Ralph had obscurely taken as a compliment.", 'label': '5'}
{'text': "Art\n\nIn modern times - more and more over the course of the last two hundred years - we have come to speak as though every artist had to rebel against the art of his contemporaries. Art is praised in terms of being unique, revolutionary, shocking even. We feel good about admiring the artist whose work no one appreciated a hundred years ago. But when we get to the art of our own day, we get cold feet and say that an artist has gone too far, that what he does can no longer be called art. Or, rather, the media say it for us. And, on the whole, we agree because we expect to be puzzled by art's insistent newness - so much so that we do not notice the old themes, methods and also virtues that the art of our own time is full of.\nWe require artists to be separate from the rest of us, figures with special talents and drive, so vigorous that conventions cannot contain them. Previous ages went to artists with commissions: people needed art for specific purposes, and it was part of their ordinary life. Today we leave artists to their own devices and get rather cross with them if they want to come down out of the clouds.\n\nPicture This\n\nI am going to describe a situation, and then ask a crucial question about it. I hope it doesn't strike you as unduly gnomic. But if it does, that's modern art for you.\nHere's the situation. An artist chooses a piece of text in an art book. The text considers the diversity of pictures. 'What are they all about?' it asks dumbly, before deciding, even more dumbly: 'There is no end, in fact, to the number of different kinds of pictures.' Okay, this is kiddy-language, and so far all it has betrayed is kiddy-thinking. But stick with me, all you adults out there. The situation is about to complicate itself.\nHaving settled on his text, the man then asks someone else to make a canvas for him, to stretch it and prime it, and then to take it along to a sign painter. He asks the sign painter to write the chosen text on the canvas. And he gives the sign painter specific instructions not to attempt anything flashy or charming with the lettering. The sign painter does all this. On a white canvas, in simple black letters, he writes the chosen text. So my crucial question is this: is the finished product a painting?\n\nUnderground Encounters\n\nAt the Mercury Gallery, London until 26th June\n\nIt is an unspoken rule of commercial success as a painter that once you have developed a profitable line in one genre, you stick to it. Collectors expect an artist to diligently mine the same seam, and attempts to strike out in a new direction are usually met at best with indignation and the feeling that the artist has let the public down.\nWhy this should be I'm not entirely sure. Gallery owners obviously prefer safe bets, and perhaps the art-buying public is insecure and needs the comfort of continuity. A few artists break the mould and get away with it. Picasso and Hockney are two prime examples. Eric Rimmington is another artist who is now gamely running contrary to form, and it remains to be seen if he can pull it off. His new show takes the daring step of swapping the pristine still lifes which have made his name for paintings of the world of the London Underground.\nRailways hold a peculiar charm for Rimmington. From drawings made in the 1980s of the railway land of Londons Kings Cross Station, it was a logical step to go beneath the ground and look at what was happening below. The sketches have provided the material for Underground Encounters, an exhibition of 40 paintings and drawings which convey the curious magic of this sunken world designed for a population in transit.\n\nExtract from a novel\n\nI have escaped to this island with a few books. I do not know why I use the word 'escape'. The villagers say jokingly that only a sick man would choose such a remote place to rebuild. Well then, I have come here to heal myself, if you like to put it that way.\nApart from the wrinkled old peasant who comes from the village on her mule each day to clean the house, I am quite alone. I am neither happy nor unhappy; I lie suspended like a hair or a feather in the cloudy mixtures of memory. I spoke of the uselessness of art but added nothing truthful about its consolations. The solace of such work as I do with brain and heart lies in this - that only there, in the silences of the painter or the writer can reality be reordered, reworked and made to show its significant side. Our common actions in reality are simply the sackcloth covering which hides the cloth-of-gold - the meaning of the pattern. For us artists there waits the joyous compromise through art with all that wounded or defeated us in daily life; in this way, not to evade destiny, as the ordinary people try to do, but to fulfil it in its true potential - the imagination. Otherwise why should we hurt one another?", 'label': '5'}
{'text': "Photography\n\nWhen a photographer takes a photograph, he or she makes a selection of visual information that is determined by his or her technical and aesthetic skills, personal views and experience, together with a set of social and cultural norms. And in the course of this book we shall see how these factors not only affect the style, content and expression of a photograph, but also how those images are perceived and responded to by the viewer. For example, we might consider that the casual reader of a newspaper will have an implicit understanding of the photographic images reproduced on the page. But rather than accepting the photograph at face value, we might question whether it accurately recorded the scene as it would have looked at the time. Or, in contrast, does it communicate the photographer's point of view? Is it the precise instant recorded that is of particular importance, or should the photograph on the page be understood as a symbol to represent a state of affairs in the world?\n\nMore than a game\n\nSport for me has always been more than just a game. The most successful people in sport have total self-belief. You need tunnel vision if you want to succeed in sport. There's only one route to being the best and you have to put everything else to one side. Sport is ruthless and no one else is going to do it for you. It's sink or swim.\nSport has taught me personal discipline and determination, but it can also teach you the benefits of working as one of a team. My sport allows and encourages you to excel individually, yet it is a team game and you have to balance these two aspects. It's very much like life - you can succeed as an individual, but you must never forget there are others around you.\nSport has given me a great deal - and not just financially. It has opened doors for me and opened my eyes, and I've seen things around the world that others will never see. But you also have to give up a lot for those perks.\n\nTuning in\n\nSome experiences etch themselves so sharply on our memory that they form islands of clarity in our recollection. For me, such a momentous occasion took place one night in California many years ago, when I lay awake listening to the rapturous strains of a mockingbird singing from an invisible location in one of the tall trees that were dotted around the suburban neighbourhood. I don't suffer from insomnia - it was the exquisite artistry of the singer that kept me awake. As I followed his intricately woven melodies, I found myself drawn into an unexpected aesthetic environment. In order to follow the patterns that issued from the bird, I had to call on my experience of jazz and Indian classical music. The bird had me convinced that I was being treated to an ad lib performance of the most breathtaking improvisational acrobatics. I groaned and I cheered as one improbable musical variation followed another through the open window where I lay listening, until finally I fell asleep.", 'label': '5'}
{'text': "Blogging: Confessing to the world \n\nSome time ago, a website highlighted the risks of public check-ins - online announcements of your where-abouts. The site's point was blunt: you may think you are just telling the world, 'Hey, I'm at this place' - but you are also advertising your out-and-about-ness to all kinds of people everywhere - not all of them people you might like to bump into. This appeared to confirm the growing awareness that there might be a downside to all the frantic sharing the web has enabled. The vast new opportunities to publish any and every aspect of our lives to a potentially global audience hold out all sorts of tantalising possibilities: Wealth! Fame! So we plunge into the maelstrom of the internet, tossing confessions, personal photos and stories into the digital vortex. Too late we realise that the water is crowded and treacherous - and we are lost. \nDepressing? Perhaps, but don't give up. This future has a map, drawn for us years ago by a reckless group of online pioneers. In the early days of the web, they sailed these waters and located all the treacherous shoals. They got fired from their jobs, found and lost friends and navigated celebrity's temptations and perils - all long before the invention of social networking. These pioneers, the first wave of what we now call bloggers, have already been where the rest of us seem to be going. Before their tales scroll off our collective screen, it's worth spending a little time with them. After all, those who cannot learn from history are doomed to repost it. \nIn January 1994, Justin Hall, a 19-year-old student, began posting to the 'WWW', as it was then known, something inhabited mostly by grad students, scientists and a handful of precocious teens like him. The web had been invented at CERN, the international physics lab in Switzerland, so researchers could more easily share their work. Hall saw something else: an opportunity to share his life. Link by link, he built a hypertext edifice of autobiography, a dense thicket of verbal self-exposure leavened with photos and art. In January 1996, on a dare, he began posting a daily blog, and readers flocked to the spectacle of a reckless young man pushing the boundaries of this new medium in every direction at once. \nHall's ethos was absolute: cross his path and you could appear on his site; no topic was taboo. Certainly, this was the work of an exhibitionist, but there was also a rigour and beauty to his project that only a snob would refuse to call art. One day though, visitors to Hall's site discovered his home page gone, replaced with a single anguished video titled Dark Night. His story tumbled out; he'd fallen spectacularly in love, but when he started writing about it on his site he was told 'either the blog goes, or I do'. He'd published his life on the internet and, Hall protested, 'it makes people not trust me'. The blog went, but the dilemma persists. Sharing online is great. But if you expect your song of yourself to 'make people want to be with you', you'll be disappointed. \nIn 2002, Heather Armstrong, a young web worker in Los Angeles, had a blog called Dooce. Occasionally, she wrote about her job at a software company. One day an anonymous colleague sent the address of Armstrong's blog to every vice president at her company - including some whom she'd mocked - and that was the end of her job. Those who study the peculiar social patterns of the networked world have a term to describe what was at work here. They call it the 'online distribution effect': that feeling so many of us have that we can get away with saying things online that we'd never dream of saying in person. But our digital lives are interwoven with our real lives. When we pretend otherwise, we risk making terrible, life-changing mistakes. \nArmstrong's saga had a happy ending. Though she was upset by the experience and stopped blogging for several months afterwards, she ended up getting married and restarting her blog with a focus on her new family. Today she is a star in the burgeoning ranks of 'mommy bloggers' and her writing supports her house hold. Once a poster child for the wages of web indiscretion, she has become a virtuoso of managed self-revelation. What Armstrong has figured out is something we would all do well to remember: the web may allow us to say anything, but that doesn't mean we should. ", 'label': '5'}
{'text': 'Music - The Challenge Ahead\n\nTechnological advances continue to transform our lives at work, at home and in our leisure activities. Susan Hallam discusses their impact on music in Britain.\n\nIn the latter part of the 20th century, we saw a rapid increase in the opportunities available for listening to music through radio, TV, records, tapes, CDs, videos and a rapidly developing range of multi-media techniques. Along with this, there has been a decline in the performance of live music and in the full-time employment opportunities for professional musicians.\nThere seems little doubt that the widening access to music is likely to continue, fulfilling as it does so many human needs. On a national level, no major state occasion is without music. For individuals, it provides opportunities for numerous activities, formal and informal.\nIndeed, a society without music is surely unthinkable and it seems that the issue is not whether there will be music in the 21st century but what the nature of that music will be, and also whether there will be a continued perceived need for people to learn to play musical instruments.\nI would respond to the latter question on a positive note. The music industry is one of the major generators of income in Britain and musical skill and talent will continue to be important in preparing individuals to work in a variety of professions, in particular those related to the media.\nIn addition to its vocational significance, there is a growing body of evidence that playing an instrument may be beneficial to the development of skills at an earlier stage. Research in the USA has suggested that listening to or actively making music has a direct positive effect on spatial reasoning, one aspect of the measurement of intelligence.\nWhile these results are still to be successfully replicated, other data from Europe has indicated that an increase in group music lessons can have positive effects on social relationships in school and on concentration in young children and those with behavioural difficulties.\nTaking the idea behind such findings one step further, current research is investigating to what extent playing an instrument may even encourage the development of transferable skills. For instance, the need to practise regularly may assist in the acquisition of good study habits and focused concentration, playing in concerts may encourage habits of punctuality and good organisation.\nFor all these reasons, there is likely to be a continuing demand for instrumental teaching in the short term. What about the longer term picture? Is there likely to be a shift in focus and, if so, what direction will it take?\nWhile there are many possible scenarios, I believe that two possibilities are likely. Firstly, the kinds of music to which people will listen will become more diverse. New genres will develop which will integrate different styles. Secondly, there will be an increase in the use of technology to compose and perform music. This will widen access to composition as there will be less reliance on technical skill but at the same time, it is likely to further reduce the need for live performance and musicians whose role is solely related to it.\nDeveloping in parallel with this trend is a likely increase in the number of people, across the whole age range, who wish to actively participate in music making. Such activities are likely to be community based and will reflect the musical traditions of that community whatever they may be.\nIf this vision of the future is to be realised, what does the music profession need to do in preparation? The focus of instrumental tuition will need to change. Ways will need to be found to enable more people to learn to play a range of instruments, throughout their life span. \nAs a result, the impact on the instrumental curriculum and the measures used to assess progress through it will be such that they will need to adapt to maintain their relevance for a broader sector of the population. Ultimately, they will need to encompass a wider range of musical skills.\nCrucial to the success of the process will be the training of musicians. They will need to be able to motivate, inspire and teach learners of all ages, develop skills for working with large and diverse groups and acquire the communication, social, entrepreneurial and management skills necessary for community work.\nThis represents a fundamental change from traditional practice and it will be accompanied by the need to respond to demands for public accountability. Viewed positively, this should provide an opportunity for all those involved in music education to demonstrate the high quality of music tuition available.\nFinally, we need to strive towards raising the profile of music itself. Music plays a crucial role in our lives but all too often it is taken for granted. Those involved in the music profession at all levels need to work actively together to ensure that this changes.\n', 'label': '5'}
{'text': "MUSIC AND THEATRE\n\nUp until quite recently, I would have said that opera is first and foremost theatre. Not any more. After a brief spell working at u national opera house, I learned that opera is, in fact, only secondly theatre. The music comes first. That's as it should be, of course. But I come from a different world, the world of the theatre, where the word and the actor speaking it have primacy, where there is nobody out front directing the action once the event is under way, and where performer and audience (mostly) speak the same language.\nAt any musical performance, whether in concert hall or opera house, there will generally be a substantial minority of people who, like me, have little technical or academic understanding of music. Some of them will be aware of, possibly even embarrassed by, how much they don't know. Most will be awestruck by the skill of the performers. A dazzling coloratura or an impeccable string section are easy to admire. Even a moderately good musician is showing us the results of years of punishingly hard work. Being in the audience for top-class music is not unlike watching an athletics match - we know athletes are doing something broadly similar to what we do when running for a bus, but we also recognise by how much it excess our best efforts.\nTheatre audiences by contrast, come with a different set of expectations. In the main they do not understand the nature of an actor's skill and are not particularly awed by an activity which, a lot of the time, appears to be very close to what they could do themselves. They are not usually impressed when an actor completes a long and difficult speech (although 'how do you learn all those lines?' is the question every actor gets asked). None of this means that theatre audiences are more generous or less demanding than their counterparts in the concert hall, indeed quite a lot of them are the same people. What perhaps it does mean is that audiences and performer meet on more equal terms in the theatre than elsewhere, no matter how challenging the material or spectacular the event. The question is, does music need to learn anything from the theatre about this relationship? I would say yes, partly because I have seen how a different approach can transform the concert-goers experience.\nMusic in live performance is inherently theatrical, full of passion, humour, melancholy, intimacy, grandeur, vulnerable to the possibility that something will go unexpectedly wrong, reaching into the imagination of the listener not just as an individual but as part of a collective. The conventions which still largely dominate music presentation, including strict dress codes and an exaggerated deference to the status of conductors and soloists, emphasise the difference between players and listeners in a way which often feels uncomfortably hierarchical. On the other hand, the tendency of contemporary music audiences to interrupt the momentum of performance by applauding between movements or after a canicular piece of virtuosity, while it is often a spontaneous expression of appreciation, can also be insensitive to the dramatic integrity of the whole work.\nIs there anything to be done? Of course a huge amount is being done. Pioneering work is going on all over the country to encourage new audiences into concert halls and opera houses, and to break down the barriers that make people feel that 'serious' music is not for them. I remember a remarkable event, the staging of Jonathan Dove's community opera In Search of Angels, which followed the action from location to location within a cathedral and then out into the town. It was a musical experience of the highest order, in which the skills, and the generosity, of the professional musicians were absolutely central and it was also life-changing for many of the audience, who were not just there to see and hear but also to contribute directly.\nPerhaps what I yearn for in music is a bit more of the risk and radicalism that theatre at its best can display. Sometimes it can come from the use of unfamiliar or challenging locations, where normal expectations are disrupted. This can have startling effects on performer and audience alike. Comforts may have to be foregone, perhaps the acoustic isn't great, maybe it's a bit cold, but theatre audiences have learned to be intrepid as they follow artists into the most unpromising spaces. I accept that most plays get put on in a pretty uncontroversial way, not greatly different from what happens in a conmen hall. However I remain convinced that something can and should happen to change the conventions of music-going. The only authority I can claim is that of the enthusiast: I love, and live by, the theatre and I spend as much time (and money) as I can going to hear music. I want them both to thrive, and for more and more people to get the pleasure I get from being the audience. ", 'label': '5'}
{'text': 'Citizen Kane\n\nWhen the film Citizen Kane finally appeared in 1941, despite the brouhaha that attended its release - delayed because of distributor\'s fears of the harm William Randolph Hearst, its alleged subject, might do to them - and largely ecstatic reviews, it was not a commercial success. It was television that brought it back to the public consciousness. It is perhaps the one film, above all others, that has inspired people to become film-makers. This is all the more astonishing since it was Orson Welles\'s first film. Welles always maintained that its success arose from his having no idea of what he was or wasn\'t allowed to do: he just went ahead and did it. But he had an extraordinary team at his disposal, cameraman Gregg Toland, screenwriter Herman J. Mankiewicz, and the special-effects wizard Linwood Dunn. When Welles and Mankiewicz hit on the idea of portraying a newspaper magnate who both was and wasn\'t Hearst, Welles realised that he had found a perfect vehicle for himself both as director and actor, and seized his chance with the energy of a whirlwind.\n\nDermot and Carmel\n\nDermot thought that Carmel was rather odd that morning. Twice he had said that he might be late and not to worry if he dropped into the golf club on the way home. He had to have a natter with someone and that was the best place to have it. Twice she had nodded her head amiably and distantly as if she hadn\'t really heard or understood. \n\'Will you be all right? What are you going to do today?\' he had asked.\nShe had smiled. \'Funny you should ask that. I was just thinking that I hadn\'t anything to do all day so I was going to stroll down town and look at the shops. I was thinking that it was almost a sinful thing, just idling away the day.\'\nDermot had smiled back. \'You\'re entitled to enjoy yourself. And as I said, if I"m late I won\'t want anything to eat. So don\'t go to any trouble.\'\n\'No, that\'s fine.\' she said.\n\nTitle Race \n\nTea boy? Do you mind, I\'m a mobile lukewarm beverage resource facilitator\nHuman nature provides the most divine of comedies. Witness a recent study which has informed the nation that job titles are a prime cause of envy and unrest at work. A survey by a leading firm of recruitment consultants found that 90% of employers and 70% of employees admit that titles create divisions among colleagues.\nMost shockingly, the survey found that 70% of office workers would be willing to forgo a pay rise in favour of a more \'motivational\' or \'professional\' job title. If our vanity is reaching such proportions that even basic greed is being overwhelmed, we are indeed in dire straits.\nThe truth is that in these brave new days of the early twenty-first century, nobody is content to be labelled subordinate. The titles under discussion place the emphasis on ability (specialist, coordinator) but are, in fact, little more than euphemisms.', 'label': '5'}
{'text': "The Lure of the Kitchen\n\nWhen I was at university I decided I wanted to be a chef. Among my contemporaries, this was an unusual choice. Cooking was not one of the plum jobs that most of us wanted. It is, on the face of it, an unattractive profession. Chefs lead notoriously harsh lives: the work is long, pressured, menial - and badly paid.\nBut such considerations didn't put me off. I was unhappy at university. The work was hard;\nthe social scene was insular and self-important. Being a chef seemed the perfect antidote to intellectual and social posturing. It promised a seriousness and integrity lacking in my college life.\nBut my desire to cook was not simply a reaction to being a student. It also expressed an aesthetic ideal. My first glimpse of this ideal came when I ate a meal at a famous London restaurant. It was a revelation. I still clearly remember my starter. I finished that meal wanting to prostrate myself weeping, at the feet of the chef who had made it. I felt warm and airy for days afterwards.\nAfter this, I developed an intense desire to uncover the secrets of this strange, fabulous art. I transformed my student life into an extended preparation for my assault on the culinary world. My history degree became a hollow pretence, distracting me from my true course. I acquired my real education haphazardly and deficiently by reading cookbooks, roaming markets and delicatessens and preparing extravagant meals.\n\nExtract from a novel\n\nThe school's swimming instructor was an ex-drill sergeant, small and muscle-bound, with tattooed arms. When I asked him to teach me how to dive, he told me to sit on the pools edge, put my hands above my head and roll forwards, pushing myself off with my feet. I practised that manoeuvre until the hour was up. The next visit, he got me standing upright, and diving off the edge. The instructor was a martinet and every time I surfaced he looked at me with distaste: 'Don't look down, look up!' 'Keep your legs straight.' 'Point your toes I said!' The next week, I went up onto the high board. It was a fixed board and its front edge bent slightly downward. It seemed outrageously high as I stood there, trying to work up my courage. Gradually the echoing voices disappeared and I felt as if I were cocooned in silence. I waved my arms vaguely in the way I'd been taught, tried to look up, not down, and launched myself into space. For a brief moment, I was flying. When I hit the water, I crumpled ignominiously, and my legs were all over the place. The instructor looked at me with contempt and shook his head. But even he could not diminish my euphoria. That's what they mean by 'free as a bird', I thought.\n\nThe Traveller\n\nTo those of us for whom a comfortable bed, running water and the probability of living at least until tomorrow are of prime importance, the phenomenon of the traveller appears as incomprehensible as it is intriguing. Here are people who have succumbed to the treacherous seduction of the unknown, who actually choose to put their lives at risk by climbing the sheer and icy face of an avalanche-ridden mountain; who sail alone in frail craft through towering seas; who will eat maggots and river insects if nothing more palatable is on offer and who can live, day and night for months on end, in the shadow and the promise of the unknown.\nIt is easy to dismiss such people as oddities - as indeed they are - to be relegated to the ranks of the truly eccentric: hermits, freefall divers or indeed writers. That they exist cannot be denied, but the strange, uncomfortable world they occupy lies well outside our everyday experience and can be dismissed, we tell ourselves, as an irrelevancy. We can shrug our shoulders and return thankfully to our world of microwave ovens and answerphones, glad that the only risks to our own health are predictable ones such as making a suicidal dash across a city street.\n\nSAILING\n\nJonathan Raban is afraid of the sea, saying it is not his element, which is probably why he spends so much time on it. He does not claim to be a world-class sailor, though he is obviously a competent one. His overriding reason for sailing is that, being a writer, he likes to write about having sailed. Sailing is guaranteed to provide alarms and achievements for his pen to celebrate.\nRaban's little boat carries an electronic device that instantly gives mariners their position to within a few metres, anywhere on the earth's surface. Strongly as he approves of this instrument, there is more than a touch of primitivism in Raban's attitude to other sea-faring aids. He thinks the invention of the compass was a disaster, causing a 'fundamental rift in the relationship between man and sea'. Raban maintains that since it came into use, perhaps a thousand years ago, it has become the main object of the steersman's gaze, with the result that he no longer has to study the waves and feel the sea. And the ocean, once a place with all sorts of things going on in it, is now reduced to a mere space. Since his job is merely to keep steady on a course, the helmsman can be replaced for long stretches by an autopilot. This may be why Raban had time to look so carefully at the waves.", 'label': '5'}
{'text': "Sand\n\nMuch as I admire sands miraculous ability to be transformed into useful objects like glass and concrete, I am not a great fan of it in its natural state. To me it is primarily a hostile barrier that stands between a seaside car park and the water itself. It blows in your face, gets in your sandwiches, and swallows vital objects like car keys and coins. When you are wet it adheres to you like 'stucco', and cannot be shifted, even with a fireman's hose. But, and here's the strange thing, the moment you step onto a beach towel, climb into a car or walk across a recently vacuumed carpet, it pours off you. For days afterwards, you tip mysteriously undiminishing piles of it onto the floor every time you take on your shoes, and spray the vicinity with lots more when you peel off your socks. Sand stays with you for longer than many contagious diseases. No, you can keep sand, as far as I am concerned.\n\nLock and Key\n\nThe search for a safe home, for privacy and security, has existed ever since human beings first built a permanent homestead. The rope-lifted beam behind the door may have given way to an electronic lock triggered by a plastic card with more combinations than there are atoms in the universe, but the urge to shut out the 'bad guys' remains. The appeal of a lock and key is, to some extent, psychological. Recently, various companies have experimented with computerised locking systems, where smart cards, swiped through a 'reader', control electronic locks by means of a digital command. But people don't like them. You may be prepared to put up with it at work, but at home, everyone wants the reassurance of turning a physical key in a lock. As a result, when one locksmith company developed a new electronic system, they made sure they incorporated a proper metal key into the device.\n\nModern Art\n\nI was nervous about visiting the new Tate Modern gallery as, like many people, I can make head nor tail of modern art. I know I quite like some of it, furry things in particular, neon light sculptures and massive photographs. Perhaps if I were better informed about it, I'd have an opinion on more things. There again, yours not meant to set about it in a school-essay way. The point is not to grasp art, but to let it communicate with you. This is a splendid idea but one that never worked for me in practice. But this new gallery has tried to give the visitor a genuine insight into the whys and wherefores of the works. The first thing I noticed were the labels, proper labels that set a work in context and actually told you what it was trying to say. Instead of staring blankly at the pictures as I used to, these nuggets of information helped me understand.", 'label': '5'}
{'text': "Metals\n\nIt may have been a wish for self-adornment that aroused the interest of Stone Age people in metals. Sitting by the side of a river, waiting for a fish to come within a spears throw, or just idling away a moment, one of our early ancestors might have happened upon a shiny yellow pebble and plucked it off the river bed. It did not have the feel of stone, but it was attractive. In such a way, one could conjecture that gold entered the lives of primitive people.\nGiven the malleability of the metal, it very soon became a much sought-after material. Copper may also have been discovered by accident, and once the value of copper tools was realised, the search for its ores and for ways of getting the copper out of them was pursued with vigour. Thus, metalworking was added to our ancestors' battery of life-enhancing accomplishments.\n\nSt Ives\n\nThere was silence as we lugged our bags down the winding, cobbled lane that led to the heart of town, bent double against the force eight gale and trying in vain to avoid the icy waves that smashed over the promenade. There was no one on the streets and the shutters in every cottage on the waterfront were bolted tight against the battering. We had watched the weather worsen as we chugged into St Ives on the tiny single-track railway. As the ominous grey skies closed in, visiting Cornwall in the off-season - without a car - no longer seemed such a good idea. I had lured my friend into joining me with the promise of walks along the beautiful Cornish coast, and snug evenings, toasting ourselves before open fires.\n\nComputer Modelling\n\nThe problem with studying the past is that it is past. The people who prospered in times of peace and plenty and struggled through conflict and drought are long dead. The forces that drove them to settle here or move there, that brought them together as families and clans, villages and cities, have faded from memory. Archaeology provides hints and clues, but we cannot test our hypotheses with experiments on cultures living or dead. We cannot rewind the tape and watch a replay of the past. Then again, perhaps we can.\nComputer modelling allows us to recreate prehistoric landscapes and environments and populate them with virtual communities - digital creations with some of the needs, independence and capabilities of real-world humans. We can establish rules of conduct and replicate social units. Then we can turn down the rainfall - or turn up the population - and watch how this cyber-culture and its artificial people react.", 'label': '5'}
{'text': "Writing Reviews\n\nFrank Kermode examines the craft of review-writing from a practitioner's point of view.\n\nMost reviews are written and circulated under conditions which ensure that they have a very short active life. There are deadlines, there are restrictions, normally quite severe, on their length; and when published they claim houseroom only for as long as the newspaper they are printed in - a day or a week, at most a month. Moreover, the literary status of reviews tends to be settled by their ephemerality. It is usually supposed, not only by the public but, quite often, by the writers themselves, that reviewing is work that nobody would do if there weren't some reason -- shortage of cash would he cited most often, though another good reason is that you can't work all day on a novel or a 'serious'\nbook of any sort - which prevents them from occupying their time with something more valuable.\nYet reviewing is a skilled and multi-faceted job. It is one thing to be bright, brisk and summarily fair in the six or eight hundred words of an ordinary newspaper review, quite another to control, without looseness of argument, the six or eight thousand words sometimes allowed by international journals. And the fifteen hundred words of a leading piece in the weekly magazines present some of the problems of both short and long. Not that length is the only consideration. For one thing, the reviewer obviously needs to think about the probable audience, the weekend skimmer at one end of the scale, the person already interested enough in the subject to tackle a serious review-article at the other. Finally, a reviewer needs to know quite a bit about quite a number of things; and must be able to write prose that intelligent people can understand and enjoy. It follows almost infallibly that the reviewer will be somebody who writes other things besides reviews.\nThe American novelist Johh Updike, who rather looks down on criticism -- 'hugging the shore' he calls it - nevertheless enjoys some coastal reviewing in the intervals between his transoceanic novel-writing. Understandably reluctant to allow even his less ambitious voyages to go without any permanent record, he gathers together his every review, however short, into volumes with mildly self-deprecating titles. It might be thought that lesser persons should accept ephemerality as the penalty appropriate to their coastal caution, but it is hand to see why, if they can get away with it, they shouldn't be allowed to enjoy the measure of permanence, and the measure of vanity, proper to their station, especially if they believe that some of their best writing has been 'buried' in reviews. I admit to feeling this about my own work.\nMy own principal occupation has been academic, and most of my 'serious' books are recognisably academic products, the sort of thing professors like, and are expected to do as part of their jobs. However, the English-speaking world (I think fortunately) acknowledges nothing comparable to the sharp distinction people from other cultures make between reviewing and literary study -- and so with us it is quite usual for the same people to do both. The days are gone when other academics reviled reviewer-professors for unseemly self-display, or waste of academic time, or betrayal of the dignity of their institutions. And complaints from non-professors, to the effect that the professors are taking the bread out of their mouths, are also less common than they were, partly because there is so much more reviewing nowadays that practically everyone can have some, partly, no doubt, because the bread is often such a meagre ration.\nMy own view is that these arrangements are good for both readers -- since they can be fairly certain the reviewer has at least some idea what he is talking about -- and professors, if only because the work helps to keep them sane. It also reminds them that they have a duty, easily neglected, to make themselves intelligible to non-professors. When talking among themselves they may feel some need to be impressively arcane, but when addressing intelligent non-professors they need to make sure they are communicating effectively.\nFinally, it is clear that for a variety of reasons, and despite all that can be said to dignify it, reviewing must be a secondary occupation. It is something you can only do well enough if you are also doing something else well enough. ", 'label': '5'}
{'text': "Amateur Astronomy\n\nMany things have changed in astronomy over the past half-century. Until about 30 years ago, there was a great shortage of charts and catalogues. Telescopic equipment was limited and there were few books on practical astronomy. Today, the range of off-the-shelf telescopes and equipment covers almost everything one could need. Electronic calculators and computers have revolutionised almanacs and chart production, and facilitated the analysis of observations and the publication of results.\nAll this must surely make this the golden age of amateur astronomy. Well, perhaps, but a great deal has been lost as well. Now one may have to travel 80 km to find a sky comparable to that found in urban areas 50 years ago. The daytime skies are now plagued by aircraft condensation trails which can persist for hours and often spread out to form amorphous clouds, making solar observations impossible and hampering night-time observation too.\n\nToo Much Choice\n\nSociety is becoming 'overchoiced'. There are too many things to do, too many options, too many opportunities. In the new economy, the desire for the new product, service or next big thing is an addiction, and technology simply accelerates the pace of change: the noise, the proliferation of new goods and services, offering more and more choice. No sooner has the new product emerged off this virtual production line than the next one is about to be launched. The head spins, the brain races, the fatigue sets in; the disconnection from life begins.\nChoice is the mantra of the new economy, but more choice means more stress, less time and more complexity. Hence a new trend is afoot. The search is on for 'simplexity' - the simple things that give meaning in an increasingly complex world. But simplifying your life is not easy in an age of economic excess. There are more basic brands of detergent and breakfast cereals than we can ever need or want, more software upgrades, features and calling plans than we can keep track of.\n\nMcAndrews Hotel\n\nEvery summer we spend a fortnight in McAndrews Hotel in North Mayo, Ireland. It is a family tradition, instigated by my grandmother, and by now it has achieved a certain sacredness. Nothing is allowed to interfere with the ritual. We are of a kind, McAndrews clientele: old-fashioned, odd perhaps, some would say snobbish. I do not like the bad manners, the insolence of shop assistants which passes for egalitarianism in this present age; I resent chummy overtures from waiters who sometimes appear to restrain themselves with difficulty from slapping one on the back. I know most of my fellow-guests' names - like me they have been coming here since they were children - yet can rest assured that when I meet any of them in any part of the hotel, I shall be spared all social intercourse apart from a civil word of greeting. Such respect for dignity and personal privacy is hard to come by in commercial establishments these days.", 'label': '5'}
{'text': "The Wrong Country\n\nUncle chose for them a package holiday at a very reasonable price: a flight from Gatwick Airport, twelve nights in Venice, the fairyland city, in the Pensione Concordia. When Keith and Dawne went together to the travel agency to make the booking, the counter clerk explained that the other members of that particular package were a school group from the south coast, all of them learning Italian. But something went wrong.\nEither in the travel agency or at the check-in desk, or in some anonymous computer, a small calamity was conceived. Dawne and Keith ended up in a hotel called the Edelweiss, in Room 212, somewhere in Switzerland.\nAt Gatwick they had handed their tickets to a girl in the yellow-and-red Your-Kind-of-Holiday uniform. She'd addressed them by name, had checked the details on their tickets and said that that was lovely. An hour later it had surprised them to hear elderly people on the plane talking in North of England accents. Keith said there must have been a cancellation, or possibly the Italian class was on a second plane.\nThey ordered two drinks, and then two more. 'The coach'll take us on,' a stout woman with spectacles announced when they touched down. 'Keep all together now.' There's been no mention of an overnight stop in the brochure, but when the coach drew in at its destination, Keith explained that that was clearly what this was. As they stepped out of the coach it was close on midnight: fatigued and travel-stained, they did not feel like questioning their right to the beds they were offered.\nBut the next morning, when it became apparent that they were being offered them for the duration of their holiday, they became alarmed.\n'We have the lake, and the water birds,' the receptionist smilingly explained. 'And we may take the steamer to Interlaken.'\n'An error has been made,' Keith informed the man, keeping the register of his voice even, for it was essential to be calm. He was aware of his wive's agitated breathing close beside him.\n'We were meant to be in Venice. In the Pensione Concordia.'\n'I do not know the name, sir. This is Switzerland.'\n'A coach is to take us on. An official said so on the plane. She was here last night, that woman.'\n'Your group is booked twelve nights in the Edelweiss Hotel. To make an alteration now, sir, if you have changed your minds -'\n'We haven't changed our minds. Theres been a mistake.'\nThe receptionist shook his head. He did not know about a mistake.\n'The man who made the booking,' Dawne interrupted, 'was bald, with glasses and a moustache.' She gave the name of the travel agency in London.\n'Some problem, have we?' a woman said, beaming at Keith. She was the stout woman he had referred to as an official. They'd seen her talking to the yellow-and-red girl at Gatwick. On the plane she'd walked up and down the aisle, smiling at people.\n'My name is Franks,' she was saying now. 'I'm married to the man with the bad leg.'\n'Are you in charge, Mrs Franks?' Dawne enquired. 'Only we're in the wrong hotel.'\nAgain she gave the name of the travel agency and described the bald-headed counter clerk, mentioning his spectacles and his moustache. Keith interrupted her. 'It seems we got into the wrong group. We reported to the Your-Kind-of-Holiday girl and left it all to her.'\n'We should have known when they weren't from Dover,' Dawne contributed. 'We heard them talking about Darlington.'\nKeith made an impatient sound. He wished sh'ed leave the talking to him.\n'We noticed you at Gatwick,' Keith said. 'We knew you were in charge of things.'\n'And I noticed you. I counted you, although I daresay you didn't see me doing that. Now, let me explain to you. There are many places Your-Kind-of-Holiday sends its clients to, many different holidays at different prices. There are, for instance, villa holidays for the adventurous under-thirty-fives. There are treks to Turkey, and treks for singles to the Himalayas.'\n'Now, what I am endeavouring to say to you good people is that all tickets and labels are naturally similar, the yellow with the two red bands.' Mrs Franks suddenly laughed. 'So if you simply followed other people with the yellow-and-red label you might imagine you could end up in a wildlife park! But of course,' she added soothingly, 'that couldn't happen in a million years.'\n'We're not meant to be in Switzerland,' Keith doggedly persisted.\n'Well, let's just see, shall we?'\nUnexpectediy, Mrs Franks turned and went away, leaving them standing. The receptionist was no longer behind the reception desk. The sound of typing could be heard.\n'She seems quite kind,' Dawne whispered, 'that woman.' Keith wasn't listening. He tried to go over in his mind every single thing that had occurred: handing the girl the tickets, sitting down to wait, and then the girl leading the way to the plane, and then the pilot's voice welcoming them aboard, and the air hostess with the smooth black hair going round to see that everyone's seat belt was fastened.\n'Nice to have some young people along,' an elderly man's voice interrupted Keith's thoughts. 'Nottage the name is.' The old man's wife was with him, both of them looking as if they were in their eighties. They'd slept like logs, she said, best night's sleep they'd had for years, which of course would be due to the lakeside air.\n'Thats nice,' Dawne said.\nKeith walked out of the reception area and Dawne followed him. On the forecourt of the hotel they didn't say to one another that there was an irony in the catastrophe that had occurred. On their first holiday since their honeymoon they'd landed themselves in a package tour of elderly people when the whole point of the holiday was to escape the needs and demands of the elderly. In his bossy way Uncle had said so himself when they'd tried to persuade him to accompany them.", 'label': '5'}
{'text': "0ral History\n\nThe growing trend for historians to rely on oral evidence is not without its problems. It is naive to suppose that someone's testimony represents a pure distillation of past experience, for in an interview each party is affected by the other. It is the historian who selects the informant and indicates the area of interest; and even if he or she asks no questions and merely listens, the presence of an outsider affects the atmosphere in which the informant recalls the past and talks about it. The end product is conditioned both by the historian's social position vis-a-vis the informant, and by the terms in which he or she has learnt to analyse the past and which may well be communicated to the informant. In other words, historians must accept responsibility for their share in creating new evidence. But the difficulties are far from over when the historian is removed from the scene. For not even the informant is in direct touch with the past. His or her memories may be contaminated by what has been absorbed from other sources (especially the media); they may be overlaid by nostalgia ('times were good then'), or distorted by a sense of grievance about deprivation in childhood, which only took root in later life. To anyone listening, the feelings and attitudes are often what lends conviction to the testimony, yet they may be the emotional residue of later events rather than the period in question.\n\nAnimal Science\n\nThere are two main approaches to animal science - the physiological and the whole animal. Physiologists are mainly interested in how the body works, that is, in how the nerves, muscles and sense organs are coordinated to produce complex behaviour. Those taking the 'whole animal' approach, although they are often interested in the mechanisms of 'behaviour', study the behaviour of the intact animal and the factors that affect it.\nWithin the 'whole animal' approach, a distinction is often made between psychologists and ethologists. Psychologists have traditionally worked in laboratories on the learning abilities of a restricted range of species, mainly rats and pigeons. Ethologists have been more concerned with the naturally occurring, unlearnt behaviour of animals, often in their wild habitats. Although this distinction still exists to some extent, there is now a fruitful coming together of the two.\nAmong these types, it is the physiologists who like to emphasise that their methods are the more fundamental. However, even if we knew how every nerve cell operated in the performance of some pattern of behaviour, this would not remove the need for us to study it at a behavioural level also. Behaviour has its own organisation and its own units mat we must use for its study. Trying to describe the nest-building behaviour of a bird in terms of the actions of individual nerve cells would be like trying to read a page of a book with a high-powered microscope.\n\nThe Social Sciences\n\nA problem facing all students who come to study a social science for the first time is that they must do two things simultaneously. They must familiarise themselves with the substance or content of their new subject and, at the same time, they must learn the methodology of the subject. That is, they must become familiar not only with the knowledge and research findings which fill the textbooks but also with the methods by which the knowledge is obtained and organised, that is with the logical basis of the subject itself. The two elements are not separate; they are very closely related. Because we are all familiar with social life through our everyday experiences we may feel that the social sciences are very largely a matter of common-sense. But, as a look at any textbook will quickly indicate, though each of the social sciences is concerned with people in society, each discipline goes beyond common-sense understanding. Each discipline focuses on a particular aspect of social life, each uses particular methods of study and each employs its own set of concepts. It is this set of concepts, the most basic ideas in a subject, which constitutes the 'logical basis of the subject', which enables the social scientist to go beyond everyday common-sense and which distinguishes one discipline from another.\n\nClassical Architecture\n\nTo the classical world, that of Ancient Greece and Rome, architecture meant much more than the mere construction of buildings. 'Architecture', says the Roman architect Vitruvius, 'consists of Order, and of Arrangement, and of Proportion and Symmetry and Propriety and Distribution.' For several of these terms he gives a Greek equivalent: his definitions probably derived from an earlier Greek authority whose writings are lost to us. Utility and Function are not part of this definition, though in his book Vitruvius does go on to describe the best form and arrangements for different purposes of structure; but here, at the beginning, the aesthetic emphasis, architecture as an art, has priority. The origins of classical architecture are complex. There was obviously a long prehistory of basic construction, of hut habitations simple in form and material, both in Greece and Italy, which did not match up to Vitruvius' artistic requirements. Though these were, by definition, inartistic they nevertheless contributed an essential element of form, which persisted into the later sophisticated architectural concepts. However orate it may appear from the outside, in essence the classical temple is a simple, single-roomed hut.", 'label': '5'}
{'text': "Photography\n\nOver the past one and a half centuries, photography has been used to record all aspects of human life and activity. During this relatively short history, the medium has expanded its capabilities in the recording of time and space, thus allowing human vision to be able to view the fleeting moment or to visualise both the vast and the minuscule. It has brought us images from remote areas of the world, distant parts of the solar system, as well as the social complexities and crises of modern life. Indeed, the photographic medium has provided one of the most important and influential means of expressing the human condition.\nNonetheless, the recording of events by means of the visual image has a much longer history. The earliest creations of pictorial recording go as far back as the Upper Palaeolithic period of about 35,000 years ago. And although we cannot be sure of the exact purposes of the early cave paintings - whether they record the 'actual' events of hunting, whether they functioned as sympathetic magic to encourage the increase of animals for hunting, whether they had a role as religious icons, or if they were made simply to enliven and brighten domestic activities - pictorial images seem to be inextricably linked to human culture as we understand it.\nThroughout the history of visual representation, questions have been raised concerning the supposed accuracy (or otherwise) of the visual image, as well as its status in society. The popular notion that 'seeing is believing' had always afforded special status to the visual image. So when the technology was invented, in the form of photography, the social and cultural impact was immense.\nIn the mid-nineteenth century, the invention of photography appeared to offer the promise of 'automatically' providing a truthful visual record. It was seen not only as the culmination of Western visual representation but, quite simply, the camera, functioning in much the same way as the human eye, was regarded as a machine which could provide a fixed image. And this image was considered to be a very close approximation to that which we actually see. The chemical fixing of the image enabled the capture of what might be considered a natural phenomenon: the camera image. At the same time, the photographic image was held to be an achievement of sophisticated culture and produced the type of image that artists had struggled throughout the centuries to acquire the manual, visual and conceptual skills to create.\nIt may seem a further irony that, because of the cameras perceived realism in its ability to replicate visual perception, it was assumed that all peoples would 'naturally' be able to understand photographs. This gave rise to the question of whether photography constituted a 'universal language'. For example, in 1933 this view had been expressed in a series of radio broadcasts by photographer August Sander: 'Even the most isolated Bushman could understand a photograph of the heavens -- whether it showed the sun and moon or the constellations.' However, in the face of the rapid increase in global communications which characterised the latter part of the twentieth century, we do at least need to ask to what extent the photographic image can penetrate through cultural differences in understanding. Or is photography as bound by cultural conventions as any other form of communication, such as language?\nIs it possible that our familiarity with the photographic image has bred our current contempt for the intricacies and subtle methods that characterise the medium's ability to transmit its vivid impressions of 'reality'? Photography is regarded quite naturally as offering such convincing forms of pictorial evidence that this process of communication often seems to render the medium totally transparent, blurring the distinction between our perception of the environment and its photographic representations. It is the most natural thing in the world for someone to open their wallet and produce a photograph saying 'this is my grandson'.\nEver since its invention in 1839, the technology of photography and the attitudes towards the medium by its practitioners have changed radically. This may partly be attributed to photography gradually moving into what might be termed 'mythic time' - its initial role as a nineteenth-century record-keeper has now moved beyond the human scale and photographic images, once immediate and close to photographer and subject alike, have now passed out of living memory. The passage of time has transformed the photograph from a memory aid into an historical document, one which often reveals as much (if not more) about the individuals and society which produced the image as it does about its subject.\nI hope to show that the camera is not merely a mute, passive chronicler of events, and that photography does not just passively reflect culture, but can provide the vision and impetus that promote social and political change and development. For example, it is difficult to imagine the cultural changes of the Italian Renaissance of the fifteenth century without recognising the central role of the development of perspective in bringing about new visual means of representation. Similarly, photography has made a major contribution to the bringing about of the media culture that characterises our own era, while at the same time it has assumed the ironic role of bringing the harsh realities of the world to the coffee-table.", 'label': '5'}
{'text': "Kinetic Art\n\nRejoice -- the well-nigh impossible has happened: London's austere Hayward Gallery has been transformed into a place full of wonder. And not, thankfully, by some huge-budget, mega-hyped, multi-media extravaganza, but by a charmingly idiosyncratic investigation into an almost forgotten aspect of the last 60 years. A new exhibition traces the history of kinetic art -- that is art which is concerned with movement -- in the twentieth century. In the process, it reveals that making artworks which either move by themselves or investigate the idea of movement in some way has been a consistent if largely unrecognised theme of some of the most fascinating creative activity of this century. And not only that -- the marvellous range of paintings and drawings, documents and films on kinetic art assembled by curator Guy Brett, who has made a life-long study of the subject, are presented largely unmediated by text. Visitors, unharried by explanations, are left to have the pleasure of making connections and discoveries for themselves.\n\nDavid Hockney\n\nHockney's work appeals to a great many people who might otherwise display little interest in art. It may be that they are attracted to it because it is figurative and, therefore, easily accessible on one level, or because the subject matter of leisure and exorcism provides an escape from the mundanities of everyday life. Perhaps it is not even the art that interests some people, but Hockney's engaging personality and the verbal wit that makes him such good copy for the newspapers. He may, in other words, be popular for the wrong reasons. But does this negate the possibility that his art has a serious sense of purpose?\nIn the view of some respected critics, Hockney is nothing more than an overrated minor artist. To this one can counter that Hockney might seem minor because it is unacceptable today to be so popular, rather than because his work is lacking in substance. Hockney himself is not self-deluding; he is aware of his limitations and thinks that it is beside the point to dismiss his work because it does not measure up to an abstract concept of greatness. Hockney does not claim to be a great artist and is aware that only posterity can form a final judgement on his stature.\n\nWindow-shopping - an art exhibition\n\nIn the last few years I have seen loads of exhibitions of contemporary art, and amongst them brilliance and mediocrity. What always bugs me, though, are shows that seem to push an underlying agenda, suggesting there is a common attitude among certain artists. Sometimes it works, we really are made aware of new trends mining though apparently unrelated work. More often, though, we are alerted to a dubious angle or a forced concept. This led me, as a curator, to attempt a show which stands as an antithesis to this.\nTogether with seven artists I took over a space in an empty warehouse. 'Window-shopping' was intended as a collection of individual artworks that related to each other purely through the fact that they proclaimed to be art. Sam Cole's knitted cats went barmy chasing each other round on a toy train track. In contrast Matthew Crawley's turning on a video camera, opening it up and poking around in there until it breaks flickered, flashed and disappeared on the monitor in the corner. These works certainly didn't fit into the 'an exhibition exploring the theme of ...' category, and wouldn't usually be seen together in the same show, but why not? They did not impede each other and actually, I hope, through their contrast, gave something to each other. OK, so I haven't made any grandiose statements about the nature of contemporary art practice, but there probably aren't any to be made about what is basically an individual activity in which artists set their own parameters.\n\nArt History\n\nPeople who enjoy paintings are sometimes reluctant to analyse them for fear of spoiling the richness and spontaneity of their experience. It has been suggested that some of the work done by art historians, whose concern is with theory rather than practice, ignores and indeed denies the aesthetic experience, the fundamental pleasure of looking, as well as the very special act of artistic creativity. This view is a bit like the notion that knowing the ingredients of the recipe, recognising the method of cooking and seeing the utensils employed detracts from the taste of the dish.\nAcknowledging the importance of enjoying something does not, of course, preclude a thorough knowledge of the object that is arousing pleasure. It might in fact be more pleasurable if we know more about the object we are viewing. Moreover, pleasure is not a simple matter. The arousal of our senses - and how we recognise and register it - is itself open to interrogation. It is also historically located. Why we like particular characteristics of certain sorts of objects at any one time is not simply the result of our genes or our own particular personalities but is determined by values promoted within the society of which we are a part. So, while no one seeks to underestimate the importance of sensuous and instinctive responses to art objects, the notion that the sensuous is undermined by the intellectual is a legacy from a period in the past which promoted art as an alternative to thought.", 'label': '5'}
{'text': "Clutter\n\nSometimes it seems that no matter how many possessions you have, you never feel secure. While it is reasonable to have a basic nesting instinct and create a home which meets your needs, there is a point where the motivation for acquiring things gets out of control. Modern advertising is moreover deliberately designed to play on our insecurities.If you don't have one of these you will be a lesser human being is one of the consistent underlying messages we receive. To discover just how much you are influenced, I challenge you to try not to read any advertising billboards next time you go down the street. These multi-million dollar messages relentlessly condition us in very persuasive ways without our ever realising it. We are bombarded by them - television, radio, newspapers, magazines, posters, tee shirts, the internet, you name it - all encouraging us to buy, buy, buy.\n\nCaves\n\nResearch establishments and university departments around the world have invested years of research time in all aspects of caves, mainly their origins, their hydrology and their biology. Caves constitute a small but rather mysterious component of the natural environment - as such they arouse our curiosity and challenge our desire for knowledge, and consequently have had a considerable amount of research effort devoted to them. Furthermore, because of their presence as natural phenomena, they have had a long history of study, which has been intensified in those parts of the world where caves have had a direct effect on our way of life. However, the physical agility required to visit many caves means that cave research has been less in the hands of the learned professors than in most other scientific fields. Indeed there is a considerable, perhaps unique, overlap between the professional, scientific study of caves and the amateur studies carried out by those who mainly visit caves for sport.\n\nWeather Watch\n\nCountless observant people without any instruments other than their own senses originally laid the foundations of meteorology, which has progressed since the 17th century into the highly technical science of today. Satellites and electronic instruments relay endless weather information to us with the minimum of delay, computers solve in minutes abstruse mathematical sums at a speed beyond the capability of the human brain. Meteorological theory is peppered with long words which have little meaning to the non-professional. It sometimes seems there is no room left for simple weather wisdom, but nothing could be further from the truth. Human experience is still the vital ingredient which translates computed data into weather forecasts. Human observations can still provide unusual evidence which is of great help to professionals who are trying to unravel the mysteries of the atmosphere.", 'label': '5'}
{'text': 'Self-help books\n\nDione Reverend was a mere editor at Random House in New York when she first saw a manuscript by an unknown pop psychologist, Dr John Gray. \'I took one look at the title and knew it would be a number one bestseller,\' she says, chuckling, and she was right. The desperately understanding Dr Gray is now a multimillionaire and Diane Reverend has her own company. Dr Gray\'s slim volume on how to bridge communication gaps between the sexes is the unofficial mascot of a huge and expanding self-help industry that may, as its insiders claim, answer some of American\'s myriad yearnings for betterment. It also feeds off those yearnings, creates hundreds more and - not incidentally - props up the entire world of New York publishing.\nAs Britain is learning, the genre can fill entire polls with tomes os quackish and histrionic as their covers - but there are worse. For every self-help title published, thousands are rejected as too derivative or specialised. This is no small mercy. As a new breed of heavyweight editor-cum-ogent goes looking for the next lightweight blockbuster, prose style is the lost thing on anybody\'s mind. Marketability is everything. \'How promotable is the author? What\'s the "hook\'? Is it universal enough?\' Ms Reverend rattles off the key questions, then admits: \'If someone comes to me with a really catchy title, that\'s two thirds of the battle won. You know you can reach people.\'\n\nAutobiographies\n\nThere has to be a tacit understanding, a pact, between an autobiographer and reader that the truth is being told. Such at pact is, I would guess, rarely observed to the full. There are many reasons why the writer should lapse. There may be actions or thoughts which he feels it is simply too shameful to make public. There may be things he decides against putting down on paper because (as he rationalises) they are not important enough. There are also more complex and interesting reasons for surreptitiously breaking the pact. The autobiographer may decide that the ultimate goal of the work, the truth about himself, can be served by inventing stories that encapsulate the truth more neatly, more pointedly than strict adherence to the facts ever could. Or he may break the pact by deciding, from the beginning, never to adhere to it. He may call his book an autobiography simply in order to create a positive balance of credulity in the reader\'s mind that will be extremely convenient for him in his storytelling, and which, in the case of his more naive readers, may not be exhausted even by the time the story ends, so that these readers will go away thinking they have read a true history, when they have read nothing but a fiction. All of which can be done in no particular spirit of cynicism.\n\nDashiell Hammett\'s detective stories\n\nStudents of the detective story have explained the flourishing of this genre as an expression of the conflicts of late nineteenth and early twentieth century society. The detective story is essentially an allegory. The crime is a symbolic enactment of some innate human impulse of lust or greed, and its solution, at least in the traditional story, represents the reintegration of the personality with society, its lawless impulses quelled so that society can again function smoothly. In Hammett\'s peculiar version, society is returned to its former state, but that itself is shown to be corrupt and false.\nThe hunter and the hunted in Hammett\'s tales are two aspects of the same personality. The private eye and his prey understand each other and are, in a strange way, comfortable with each other. The private eye has a foot in each camp. From the point of view of the criminal he is a bit too straight, and from that of the law a bit too seedy. He is at once a crook and a competitor. The mission of the private eye is sometimes tempered by his sense of complicity, and sometimes his punitive zeal is intensified by his anxiety about this ambiguity.\n\nSCIENCE WRITING\n\nToday\'s greatest scientific essayist is Stephen Jay Gould. To discuss that art and hear his advice, I met him in an unfamiliar milieu: at the Grand Hotel (where he was staying while promoting his new book). Neither of us, it has to be said, felt much at home. As for writing a piece set in surroundings of such lifeless self-aggrandisement, Gould said: \'I couldn\'t do it: Trollope might but he knew the culture. And knowing the culture is central to being a successful writer. Science, for example, is a civilisation of its own. As a result, only scientists can make a good job of presenting it. If you don\'t live in the community and don\'t understand its rules, you are crippled from the start.\'\nOne of Gould\'s axioms is: never write down to the reader. \'Make no concessions,\' he says. \'You can simplify the language but must never adulterate it. Above all, you cannot simplify the argument. Once readers notice that they are being patronised, your piece is dead.\'', 'label': '5'}
{'text': "TIM RICE\n\nI was ushered into the young man's drawing room, an oasis of cultured sanity surrounded by what appeared to be a quite shambolic cluster of rooms in which the less enterprising members of the family operated. Moving from the kitchen to his parlour was an upgrade from economy to business class.\nHere was the largest collection of records I had ever seen, the first stereo record player and tuner I had come across and the astonishing evidence that a teenager existed who had spent money on Georgian wine glasses, pictures and furniture.\nHis name was Andrew Lloyd Webber. He had won a scholarship to Magdalen College, Oxford, to read history, and he had nine months to kill before going up, during which time he intended to become England's answer to the composer Richard Rodgers.\nMy own ambitions were just as insane as his, I wanted to be a pop star, for all the healthy reasons women, money and fame. The difference between Andrew and myself was that my dreams were never life or death to me, though it's easy to say that now. They might have become so had I failed.\nConsequently, when Andrew suggested a completely new insane ambition for me, i.e. to become as famous a lyricist as Oscar Hammerstein, I had no qualms about giving it a go. This was partly because within ten minutes of our introduction, he was at the piano and had played me three tunes he had composed -- I could tell that he was good. Very good.\nAs he confidently continued to bash out selections from some of the many shows he had written and produced at school, I was reminded of many of the best show albums from my parents LP collection. He needed a new lyricist for the outside world.\nI had little to impress him with in return, other than instant praise for his music and a bona fide, actually released, seven-inch single of a song I had written (both words and music) with which an unknown pop group had dealt the final blow to their moribund career by recording three months previously. We parted, promising to meet again and to write something together. I was still more interested in the charts than in the West End theatre, but told myself on the bus back to my flat that I had just met somebody of rare ability and determination, and I would be mad to miss out on being a sidekick to a chap who was clearly going to take the musical theatre by storm, probably by next week.\nAnd even if the two of us failed to challenge the top musical composers successfully, then we could try to knock the Beatles and Rolling Stones off their perches later, in the summer. The Everly Brothers had just made a comeback and would clearly be in need of some new material.\nThe next day, back at my desk in the office where I was training to become a solicitor, the brief certainty I had enjoyed of a life in show business with Andrew Lloyd Webber had faded somewhat. I would of course continue to keep an eye on the small ads in Melody Maker for groups needing a vocalist, and would turn out a few more three-chord songs tailored not to expose the limitations of my voice, but it was still odds-on that eventually I would stagger through my exams and wind up a respectable lawyer by the time I was twenty-five.\nBy then I would have surely grown out of pop music as my father had confidently predicted I would by the time I was twenty-one. This was worrying - if he was right I only had a few more months of enjoying it.\nBut in the meantime I felt I had nothing to lose by seeing Andrew again. It would be fun to go and see a musical with him, to write words that aped musical lyricists rather than pop stars. And Andrew was a fascinating individual who talked of Good Food Guides and Victorian architecture, besides supporting Leyton Orient football team.\nI wasn't convinced by the idea for a musical that he had been working on for the past year, but in 1965 I was rarely convinced about anything. His talent was beyond question and he claimed to have all the contacts. I was soon back in his drawing room.\nThe idea was the life of Dr Thomas Barnardo, the nineteenth century philanthropist who founded the orphanages that bear his name. His story was a worthy one indeed, but not one that truly fired my imagination. The hero was too squeaky-clean, at least in Andrew's version of his life, and the enterprise was unoriginal in both conception and execution, owing far too much to Lionel Bart's hit show, Oliver.\nOn the other hand, Andrew's conviction of his score's precocious brilliance was infectious and not totally unjustified. What did I know about musicals? As David Land, later to be my agent for over a quarter of a century, memorably (and repeatedly) said, if there's a demand for one hamburger bar on the block, there is room for two. We could be the second hamburger joint.\nI set to work with enormous enthusiasm, in particular for those songs that were intended to be funny. Andrew outlined the plot, played me the tunes and in many instances gave me the title as well, most of which had presumably been thought up by his ex-wordsmith school pal who had already had a go. I skipped a day at the solicitors office, faking illness, to write my first batch of theatrical lyrics. I did not know it that day but I had changed careers.", 'label': '5'}
{'text': "POETRY RECITALS\n\nAt any given time in history the literary scene will seem confused to those who are living through it, and it is the selectivity of posterity that makes the pattern and orders of eminence appear clearly defined to the retrospective view. It is fairly safe to say that, at the present time, there is an especially bewildering complexity of poetic tendencies, of kinds of poetry being written, of warring factions, of ways of presenting, criticising and teaching poetry, and of conflicting beliefs about the role of the poet in society. \nVery broadly speaking, the present debate in contemporary poetry concerns the reciprocal mistrust and disapproval shown by the seriously committed 'literary' writers, whose poems are intended to be printed and read on the page, and the 'popular', performing poets who, while they will probably publish their verses in magazines and collections, are happier declaiming them to an audience. Of course, this division is far from absolute.\nThe practice of promoting public poetry readings has been steadily increasing over the past twenty years or so, in many different forms. Small literary societies in provincial towns conduct them in village halls or the sitting rooms of their members; schools and colleges invite poets to read and talk to audiences of students; arts festivals often advertise poetry readings by well-known authors on their programmes. The consequences of all these events, and of poets being more or less obliged to become public performers, are manifold and of uncertain benefit to them as mists.\nFor the 'pop' poets, whose work has been composed expressly for the purpose of recital to live audiences, the issue is plain. They can only profit from public performance. Their verses are often very simple in both form and content, and can be assimilated at a single hearing; it is on the printed page that the deficiencies of thought, technique and imagination become clear. Poets who are dedicated to their craft, and are doing their best to continue and develop what is finest in the traditions of poetry - which involves compressing the maximum amount of passion, thought, wit and vision into the smallest possible space and achieving rhythmic effects of great variety and subtlety -- are unlikely to be appreciated by an audience which is probably encountering their work for the first time. The danger here is, not that they will be tempted to emulate the content and style of the entertainers, but that they might, in the effort to achieve instant communication, read only their most readily accessible work which is quite likely to be their slightest and least characteristic. \nAttendance at poetry reading cannot be a substitute for reading poetry on the page, though it can be an enjoyable and instructive adjunct. To hear good poets read their work aloud, even if they are not accomplished public speakers, is a valuable guide as to where the precise emphases are to be placed, but it is desirable that the audience should either follow the reading with the text before them or have a prior knowledge of the poems being spoken. The principal justification for popular recitals of poetry, where the readings are sometimes interspersed with musical items (jazz and poetry used to be a very popular mixture), is that audiences will come to associate poetry with pleasure and not feel that it is an art available only to an initiated minority. \n", 'label': '5'}
{'text': "Goat Racing\n\nI was about to witness goat racing. Easter Monday in Buccoo Village. I was fighting my way through ice-cream vans, hordes of people, food stalls and hot music singeing my eardrums. Even though the general movement was towards the racecourse, I elbowed my way through the crowds in an effort to get a good pitch. An area had been cordoned off to make a course for competitors. Not quite on a par with established racecourses, but on the similar assumption that spectators were to line either side of a stretch of ground along which the participants would travel. An attempt was being made to keep a handful of select goats in order. No mean feat when dealing with an animal fabled to eat almost anything it can get hold of.\n\nCanoe Trip\n\nAs the day drew to a close, I started to think about the night ahead, and I shuddered with fear. The canoe was too wet to sleep in, there was nowhere to stop, and we hadn't seen any villages or huts since early morning. In the dim moonlight, and with the aid of our torch we could just make out the line of the cliffs; the torch batteries were failing, so we put in new ones, but they didn't work. Obviously we weren't going to be able to spot a camping place. A couple of miles later, Lesley called out that she had seen a distant flickering light and our hopes soared: the light turned out to be moonlight glinting on waves, soon we could hear the roaring noise of fast-rushing water, though we couldn't see what was happening. Time stood still, and we moved on.\n\nHow to be Presentation Perfect - we answer your questions\n\nI am not a natural at making presentations, yet in my role as managing director I am increasingly required to present infernally to my colleagues, not to mention externally to the major shareholders. How can I improve my presentational techniques and my confidence?\nYou are not the only one. Making a presentation involves completely different skills from those you need to run a company, yet more and more senior executives are expected to be accomplished at it.\nIf you are trying to convince your audience of something, you have to be convinced yourself. Demonstrate your conviction in the passion and enthusiasm you bring to the presentation. That means you must do your homework. Test your proposition carefully in advance. Ask colleagues to identify the 'hard questions' your audience might put to you. You also need to build a positive climate from the outset. Begin with an area of common ground that people can identify with and build gradually towards the conclusion you want to reach.", 'label': '5'}
{'text': "Philadelphia Avenue\n\nI headed down Philadelphia Avenue on the odd-numbered side. The dusk had deepened, the humidity thickened into a palpable, prickly drizzle that lent my walk a heightened feeling of sheltered stealth. I knew this side of the street from the dawn of consciousness; our neighbours the Matzes and the Pritchards, and Han Kieffer's grocery store, and the Kring's and the Pottses' houses where my first playmates, all girls, lived. These houses down the street, though not every inhabitant was known by name to me, had each been as distinct to my childish awareness as the little troughs in the cement which led rain from their roof gutters out through the sidewalk to the street, and which punctuated my progress on roller skates or on my scooter. As the street sloped downward, there was a just-perceptible descent in the social scale as well: the porches got lower to the ground, and the front yards became exiguous. Over the years, there had been changes: wooden porch banisters and pillars had been replaced by wrought iron, in a vaguely Southern or Spanish style. Throughout Shillington, not only had houses I remembered as homes become stores but, stranger still, stores - Pep Conrad's up on Franklin and Second, Han Kieffer's here - had reverted to being homes. How had the residents divided up those open, shelved spaces? How did they live with all those ghostly aromas of merchandise?\n\nBachelor Fads\n\nFurniture designer Rick Gilbert's flat is a former curtain warehouse. It has the conventional features of the classic loft space, in this instance, exposed brickwork and gigantic doors, through which curtains were once hoisted from trains on the adjacent railway track. But Gilbert was adamant that he didn't want a brutally empty, open-plan space - for practical as much as aesthetic reasons.\n'In my last place, living and working spaces were integrated. It was hard to switch off or start work in full view of the living area.'\nRefusing to conform to the loft-dwelling convention of open-plan living, he broke up the space near the entrance with a giant snaking sheet of corrugated plastic. 'It hides the office, creates a hallway, and guides the eye to the kitchen in the middle of the flat. I wanted the kitchen to be a neutral zone, where I can either cook dinner for friends or make coffee for clients.'\nTo offset the synthetic look of his plastic screen and stainless steel kitchen, Gilbert laid the floors with a light wood. And while his futuristic chairs and sofas litter the flat, its also stuffed with rather more sentimental and homely furniture, given to him by his parents or bought from markets.\n\nBruce Chatwin\n\nTo escape or to explore? The spur behind Bice Chatwin's absurdly romantic nomadic existence has become something of a literary conundrum. Chatwin's life and art were strewn with secrets, subtle resonances and, it must be said, lies. But he was, for all that, a brilliant and unique writer. His first book, In Patagonia, published in 1977, is an awesome exercise in imagination. A travel book that reinvented travel writing, it has the animation of a thriller, the sparkle of romantic fiction and the irrepressible insight of truly extraordinary literature. Of course, even with this book, Chatwin cloaked fact with concoction; when sketching individuals and incidents, he would adjust, if not abandon, objective reality for the sake of a better twist to an anecdote, or a clean cut to the heart of what the book somehow seemed to suggest - that through travel it was possible to discover whole histories that had been lived out as if solely to excite and fascinate future explorers.\n\nSwimming\n\nThe warm rain tumbled from the gutter in one of those midsummer downpours as I hastened across the lawn behind my house and took shelter in the pool. Breaststroking up and down, I nosed along, eyes just at water level. Each raindrop exploded in a momentary, bouncing fountain that turned into a bubble and burst. The best moments were when the storm intensified, drowning birdsong, and a haze rose off the water as though the pool itself were rising to meet the lowering sky.\nIt was at the height of this drenching in the summer of 1996 that the notion of a long swim through Britain began to form itself. I wanted to follow the rain on its meanderings about our land to rejoin the sea, to break out of the frustration of a lifetime doing lengths, of endlessly turning back on myself like a tiger pacing its cage.\nMost of us live in a world where more and more places and things are signposted, labelled, and officially 'interpreted'. There is something about all this that is tuning the reality of things into visual reality. It is the reason why walking, cycling and swimming will always be subversive activities. They allow us to regain a sense of what is old and wild, by getting off the beaten track and breaking free of the official version of things. A swimming journey would give me access to that pan of our world which, like darkness, misty woods or high mountains, still retains most mystery.", 'label': '5'}
{'text': "Othello\n\nThe transfer to London from Stratford of an exceptional production of Shakespeare's play Othello allows me to make amends for an unfair review that I wrote when the show opened last spring. Back then I complained that Ray Fearon was too young to play the title role and I was guilty of running down his acting. I still think its a distortion of the tragedy to remove the age difference between Othello and Desdemona but I eat my words about the rest of Mr Fearon's magnificent performance. Indeed the whole cast is magnificent. Memorable scenes include the one where Cassio's competitive games with the other young officers get dangerously out of hand, and the moment when Iago begins to lose control and has to struggle to get a grip on himself. And I challenge anyone not to be moved to tears during the scene where Emilia prepares Desdemona for bed. The pace and tension throughout are terrific. Do not miss this production.\n\nLake Vostok\n\nIn the heart of Antarctica, nothing stirs. On the fringes of the continent there are penguins, seals and birds aplenty. But up on the great white plateau in the interior, life has no foothold. Except, that is, in a vast hidden expanse of freshwater named Lake Vostok which lies beneath nearly 4 kilometres of ice, directly below the coldest spot on earth. The water has been isolated from air and sunlight for up to 25 million years. Biologists can hardly wait to probe its mysterious depths and discover what strange organisms lurk within. Geologists and glaciologists are hot on their heels. For two years now, researchers round the world have been plotting ways to uncover the lakes secrets, and, if they get their wish, in the next few years we will witness the decade of Lake Vostok.\n\nScientists\n\nThere was an interesting thing on the radio last week. It seems that a bunch of scientists are getting themselves hot under the collar over what drives them to be scientists; the expression 'because it's there' springs to mind. Sure we all know its the age-old quest for knowledge, the desire to understand everything from the atom to the black hole. But what these guys want to know is why we want to know all of this in the first place and why can't science explain why we want to know?\nSurely, it's more important to know whether what we scientists are doing is right, rather than get bogged down in debates over the point of it all. I would have thought that the crucial issue here is not why we pursue it, but to recognise that science is a tool, and we are the ones who should decide how, where, when and why to use it.", 'label': '5'}
{'text': "Observing Lions\n\nIn the popular imagination, lions hunting for food present a marvel of group choreography: in the dying light of sunset, a band of stealthy cats springs forth from the shadows like trained assassins and surrounds its unsuspecting prey. The lions seem to be archetypal social animals, rising above petty dissension to work together towards a common goal - in this case, their next meal. But after spending many years observing these creatures in the wild, we have acquired a less exalted view. \nWhen we started our research in 1978, we hoped to discover why lions teamed up to hunt, rear cubs and among other things, scare off rivals with chorused roars. If the ultimate success of an animals behaviour is measured by its lifetime production of surviving offspring, then cooperation does not necessarily pay: if an animal is too generous, its companions benefit at its expense. Why, then, did not the evolutionary rules of genetic self-interest seem to apply to lions?\nWe confidently assumed that we would be able to resolve that issue in two to three years. But lions are supremely adept at doing nothing. To the list of inert noble gases, including krypton, argon and neon, we would add lion. Thus it has taken a variety of research measures to uncover clues about the cats behaviour. Because wild lions can live up to 18 years, the answers to our questions are only now becoming clear. \n\nPop Music Review\n\nThe release of Bedrock's third album was more than just a landmark in the career of a talented but hitherto precarious band. New Life launched a movement that effectively redesigned the specification of rock music in this country for the rest of the decade. Out went the earnest angst, plain-shirted drabness and overdriven guitars of a previous era; in came a lighter blend of melodious homegrown styles. A mix of social observation and strident anger mingled easily here with the sound of fairground organs and northern brass bands. Humour and irony were well to the fore, as were the voices that felt no need to disguise their origins.\nThe album showed Bedrock to be skilful magpie collectors and observers, and a cunningly versatile team of songwriters. At their most obvious, they went larkily after traditional English preoccupations such as sunbathing and Sunday afternoons. But the album's real strength lay in the gentle melancholy depths it plumbed on tracks such as 'So Low', a gorgeous unfurling tune loosely hung around the theme of meteorology, and 'To the Brink', a ballad that allowed no smirking at the back. The beauty of New Life is its consistently sky-high quality - 16 tracks with absolutely no filler remains an unsurpassed record in the era of loiteringly long CDs.\n\nExtract from an autobiography\n\nAs a child I was always fascinated by stories of 'The Sibyl', those mysteriously wise women who wielded such influence in the ancient world. To begin with, I only knew of the existence of one who appeared in a tale my mother had told me. An old woman of Cumae offered Tarquin, King of Rome, nine books for 300 gold pieces. He refused and she burnt three of them, offering him six for the same price. When he refused, she again burnt three books. He bought the remaining three for the full 300 gold pieces. \nI realised even then that there was a profound truth hidden in the story - a lesson in salesmanship and in life. I was sometimes a lonely only child. I used to ask to play with other children and be refused. My mother told me to do something so interesting that all the other kids would beg to join me. It worked. It was another lesson that I've never forgotten.\nWhen I was given the chance to write a travel book, I had to look for something that I could bear to find out about, something that was relevant to my life. I'm a reluctant traveller - at the first opportunity I sent my editor a very long list of places I wasn't prepared to go to. When it comes down to it, I'm only interested in ruins, because the travel I like is the travel of the mind through time.\n\nWhat becomes of your manuscript?\n\nWhen you submit your manuscript it will most likely join a heap waiting for someone to sort and sift before it topples over - the so-called slush pile. The someone is usually either the editorial department junior (i.e. under 18) or an old hand who comes in a couple of mornings a week and is paid by the hour. Neither of these has much influence, but they are basically on your side and out to discover something original - the junior to make his or her name and acquire an author of their own if they are lucky, the old hand to justify continuing freelance employment.\nIf they think your novel is promising, they will pass it on to a more senior editor and eventually it will surface at an acquisition meeting. The championing editor will not only have to justify accepting your novel on the grounds of intrinsic merit and potential sales, but also say whether you as an author seem to be a long-term prospect (which you will have assured them of in your letter). Also the question is raised of how promotable you are likely to be - an important factor - when a new novel needs all the help it can get. To this end, publishers often like to meet a potential author before clinching the offer.", 'label': '5'}
{'text': "Holiday reading\n\nSummer promises us two of life's great joys: escaping home and reading books - joys that are, of course, intimately connected. Books may help us to feel more at home in the world at large. We can relate our experiences to those described in great books written long ago or in distant lands because there are fewer human types than there are people. In the books of others, we find our own thoughts, embarrassments and dramas. Authors can locate words to depict a situation we thought ourselves alone in feeling, or can express our very own thoughts, but with a clarity and psychological accuracy we could not match. What was shy and confused within us is unapologetically and cogently phrased in them, a congruence all the more striking if the work was written by someone in a far-flung place or in another age. We feel grateful to these strangers for reminding us of who we are.\nThrough reading and travel, we escape the deadening effect of habit. Our eyes are never more open than during our first few days in a new place: except perhaps during our reading of a great book, which guides us to the interest of things we had previously ignored. Our mind is like a radar newly attuned to pick up certain objects floating through consciousness. Our attention is drawn to the shades of the sky, to the changeability of a face, to the hypocrisy of a friend, or to a submerged sadness about a situation that we had previously not even known we could feel sad about. \n\nAuthor's Note\n\nThese travel reflections were all published as articles in the Observer newspaper over a seven-year period. Here and there I have restored some small cuts by the editor, which had to be made if the piece was to fit the page, but otherwise I have added very little. The occasional outright howler has been corrected, but only if it was a matter of detail which I should have got right in the first place. Hindsight would have allowed further improvements, but there would have been no end to the process. In the second article about China, for example, it seemed likely at the time, and for some time after, that the Hong Kong dollar would hold up. A year later it fell. If I were to rewrite the piece so as to predict this fact, it would become a claim to prescience, or at any rate no longer a report written at that moment. But like any other flying visitor, in South East Asia or anywhere else, I was there at that moment, ignorant as to what would happen next, and fully occupied with making the most elementary sense of what had happened already. That has been the real story of mass jet travel: the world opening up to people who have no qualifications for exploring it except the price of a ticket. But I have never been able to believe that all my fellow travellers were quite blind. Even a postcard can be written with a purpose.\n\nEcotourism\n\nIf there were awards for tourism phrases that have been hijacked, diluted and misused, then 'ecotourism' would earn top prize. The term first surfaced in the early 1980s, reflecting a surge in environmental awareness and a realisation by tour operators that many travellers wanted to believe their presence abroad would not have a negative impact. It rapidly became the hottest marketing tag a holiday could carry.\nThese days the ecotourism label has broadened out to cover anything from a two-week tour living with remote tribes, to a one-hour motor boat trip through an Australian gorge. In fact, any tour that involves cultural interaction, natural beauty spots, wildlife or a dash of soft adventure is likely to be included in the overflowing ecotourism folder. There is no doubt the original motives behind the movement were honourable attempts to provide a way for those who cared to make informed choices, but the lack of regulations and a standard industry definition left many travellers lost in an ecotourism jungle.\n\nTransylvanian Journey\n\nThe notebook covering the Transylvanian leg of my journey was lost for 50 years, and only restored a few years ago by a great stroke of luck. It has been a great help to me in reconstructing that period and committing it to print, but not the unfailing prop it should have been. For in Transylvania I found myself having a much easier time of it than I had planned, drifting from one hospitable country house to another, often staying for weeks. When I came to a standstill during those long halts, writing stopped too; as I was keeping a journal of travel, I wrongly thought there was nothing to record. I was often slow to take it up again when I moved on and, even then, jotted notes sometimes took the place of sustained narrative.\nFearing some details might have got out of sequence when I started writing the present book, I surrounded these passages with a cloud of provisos and hedged bets. Then the thought that these pages were not a guidebook persuaded me that it didn't matter very much, so I let the story tell itself free of debilitating caveats.", 'label': '5'}
{'text': "In those days the council houses stretched all over the western side of the city: row after row of huddled, dingy dwellings in orange half-brick or pale white stucco. In summer the chemicals from the May and Baker factory two miles away came and hung round the doors and gardens with an indescribable smell of sulphur, and the most common sight in that part of Norwich early in the morning was a paperboy wrinkling his nose in disgust as he negotiated somebody's front path.\nMost of this early life I've forgotten. But there is a memory of sitting, or perhaps balancing, at any rate precariously, on some vantage point near an upstairs window, and looking at the houses as they faded away into the distance. Later on there are other phantoms - faces that I can't put names to, my mother, ironing towels in the back room of a house that I don't think was ours, snow falling over the turrets of the great mansion at Earlham.\nThat my mother should intrude into these early memories is no surprise. I remember her as a small, precise and nearly always angry woman, the source of whose anger I never quite understood, and consequently couldn't do anything to appease. Even as a child, though, accompanying her to the small shops in Bunnett Square or on longer excursions into the city, I'm sure that I had some notion of the oddity of her personality.\nShe was, for instance, quite the most solitary person I have ever known, as alone in a room full of people as on a moor. To this solitariness was added a fanatic adhesion to a kind of propriety uncommon on the West Earlham estate, which occasionally broke out in furious spring-cleanings or handwashings and instructions to 'behave proper'.\nAs a moral code this was completely beyond my comprehension: even now I'm not sure that I understand it. To particularise, it meant not straying into neighbours' gardens or jeopardising their rose bushes as you walked down the street; it meant sitting for long half-hours in a silent dining room, with your hands folded across your chest, listening to radio programmes that my mother liked; it meant - oh, a hundred proscriptions and prohibitions.\nIn time other figures emerged onto these stern early scenes. For all her solitariness, my mother wasn't without her cronies. There was Mrs Buddery, who was fixated on the Royal Family, Mrs Winall, who said exactly nothing, except for grunts supporting the main speaker, and Mrs Laband - livelier than the others, and of whom they vaguely disapproved.\nIt was only later that I comprehended what poor company this trio was, they formed a depressed and depressing sisterhood, a little dribble of inconsequent talk about bad legs, the cold weather and the perils of ingrate children, a category in which I nearly always felt myself included.\nLooking back, it was as if a giant paperweight, composed of the West Earlham houses, my mother and her cronies, the obligation to 'behave proper', lay across my shoulders, and that it was my duty immediately to grow up and start the work of prising it free.\nThis was easier said than done. Growing up in West Earlham at this time followed a well-regulated pattern. Until you were five you simply sat at home and got under your parents feet (I can remember awful aimless days, when I must have been about four, playing on a rug in the front room while my mother sat frostily in an armchair). Then, the September after your fifth birthday, you were packed off to Avenue Road infants school half a mile away in the direction of the city.\nThe lucky few had a mother with a rickety bike and a child seat - these were extraordinary contraptions in cast-iron with improvised safety-straps. As far as I recall, my mother consigned me to the care of other children in the street for this journey.\nIf I remember anything about these early years it's the summer holidays, those days when you caught occasional glimpses of the world that existed outside West Earlham: a vague old man who lived next door to Mrs Buddery and told stories about his time in the Merchant Navy; a charity fete, once, held at a house far away in Christchurch Road, where a motherly woman doled out lemonade and tried to get me interested in something called the League of Pity - a kind of junior charity, I think - only for my mother, to whom subsequent application was made, to dismiss the scheme on the grounds that its organisers were 'only after your money'.\nMercenary motives were a familiar theme of my mother's conversation, and politicians my mother held in the deepest contempt of all. If she thought of the House of Commons - and I am not sure if her mind was capable of such an unprecedented leap of the imagination - it was as a kind of opulent post office where plutocrats ripped open letters stuffed with five pound notes sent in by a credulous public.\nNo doubt I exaggerate. No doubt I ignore her virtues and magnify her frailties. But there was precious little milk of human kindness in my mother, \nit had all been sucked out of her, sucked out and thrown away.\nTo do my mother justice she wasn't unconscious of her role as the guardian of my education. On Sundays occasionally, she would take me - in my 'good clothes' - on the 85 bus to the Norwich Castle Museum. Here, hand-in-hand, suspicious, but mindful of the free admission, we would parade through roomfuls of paintings by the Norwich School of Artists.\nMy mother wasn't, it must be known, altogether averse to this recreation, and eventually almost got to have opinions on the various subjects presented for her edification. I can remember her stopping once in front of a fine study of a Roman soldier in full battle gear to remark, 'Well, I wouldn't like to meet him on a dark night!' I recall this as a solitary instance of my mother attempting to make a joke.", 'label': '5'}
{'text': "Vancouver\n\nIn the last ten years or so, hundreds of thousands of people from all over the world have taken up residence in Vancouver, in western Canada. To relax in the evening, residents stroll down the city streets and, if you join them, you are likely to overhear a different language at almost every other step. People come to Vancouver for its mild climate, its wonderful setting between the ocean and the mountains, its clean and safe environment and its educational and job opportunities. And much as some may grumble about the speed at which new buildings have sprung up, there's no doubt that the new arrivals and flourishing tourism industry have helped fuel an urban renaissance. Locals once referred to Vancouver as 'Terminal City' because of the city's role as a terminus or gateway to all other places. Though the name has fallen slightly out of favour, Vancouver is more a gateway than ever.\n\nPutting Pen to Paper\n\nJournalists like myself are usually poor letter-writers. I have heard it said that this is because of the instinctive distaste we feel at writing something we are not going to be paid for, but I cannot believe we have quite such mercenary characters. It is more probably that since in our work, we are always striving to get the greatest possible effect, the essential spontaneity of a letter escapes us. The real creative artist, who does not consciously work on the effect at all (though he may rewrite a passage dozens of times), does not have this problem. I believe that it is in this inherent grasp of the effect of his words that there lies the only sure test of the real artist. When Shakespeare wrote some of his famous lines he surely never thought consciously that it was the contrast between polysyllables that made them so effective, as well as showing him to be a great writer.\n\nSupermarket Opening\n\nThe opening of a new supermarket used to be a bit of an event in Britain. You could always rely on a soap star, a disc jockey or a minor member of the royal family to come down and cut the ribbon. Now it seems that new branches are popping up every day in many areas and so the poor old celebrity has become superfluous. Why pay a famous person when any Tom, Dick or Harry will open it for nothing? Last week, waiting pensioners didn't care who opened the new branch of Superbuy, so long as they were at the front. According to one prospective customer who knew someone who worked there, the first five men over the threshold would be getting a bottle of aftershave, and the first five women, a bunch of flowers. This snippet of information quickly swept through the crowd, instilling feelings of smug superiority among those at the front, and envy from the latecomers.\n", 'label': '5'}
{'text': "Fashion\n\nFashion is often seen as a modern phenomenon, entirely dependent upon nineteenth- and twentieth-century capitalism for its development. Most historians of fashion are at pains to point out, though, that fashion, at least in the sense of style and design, has a very long history. They often take the rise of the market and mercantile trade in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries as their starting point.\nAs societies have developed in complexity, populations have expanded, and multiple technologies for producing an increasing variety of clothing and physical adornment have been discovered, so the meanings attached to dress have also increased in their complexity and significance. Consequently, it is difficult to say with any degree of certainty today what any item of clothing or adornment actually means. For example, a man's suit, supposedly an indicator of the most extreme uniformity, actually conveys very differing meanings in different contexts and to different people.\n\nWriter\n\nNewspaper reports of publishers in bidding wars over whizz-kid manuscripts have resulted in a skewed idea of what life is like for your average novelist. Down at my end of the business - i.e. not exactly topping the best-seller lists - there are two ways of making ends meet. The wisest among us write in the evenings and have other full-time jobs that will still be there even if the book doesn't immediately get snapped up and turned into a film. Those such as myself, however, are literary odd-jobbers, subsisting on a bit of teaching, the occasional workshop and articles like this. I have heard tell of an in-house writing opportunity offered by a chocolate factory, but I've never managed to get anything like that. Somehow, though, by dint of juggling part-time jobs and credit cards and also, more often than not, thanks to the generosity of those names you find in Acknowledgements, the novel gets written.\n\nSudden Fame\n\nThe small venues we were performing at around the country were all beginning to sell out and extra bouncers were having to be called in to hold back the growing legion of screaming girls. We found ourselves having to use secret entrances to the village halls and ballrooms we were playing to prevent ourselves being mobbed by fans. On the few nights a week when we were not working, we found it difficult to leave the house without being pursued through the streets by adoring followers. In a matter of days, we had been transformed into celebrities. Our moves were monitored by our admirers and all of our needs catered for by our management and other interested parties. Even though the shyness that had always accompanied me never quite went away, it was replaced by a strange naive over-confidence that only naturally shy people who have been thrust into similar situations can relate to. In short, I was emotionally totally out of my depth.", 'label': '5'}
{'text': "The two sisters kept Lily's driving a secret from Chen for some time. She would drive around the allotments and the railway line and gasworks, shooting the tiny hump-backed bridge with all four wheels in the air and a tremendous bump (Lily's only misjudgement), before completing the journey by the gasworks in an odour of sulphur and brimstone. Chen, however, was actually amused by what his wife had been doing behind his back. 'So you can really drive it then, Lily? Well done!'\nMen were strange creatures, Mui thought. Brother-in-law should have been upset about this. Yet he was soon enthusiastically making plans with Lily for a jaunt and obviously revelling in her mastery of this new skill.\nThey fixed on a Monday at the beginning of next month. This was the slackest day of the week, they decided to leave early in the morning and return by midday. That way they need lose no customers. In the meantime Lily would practise around the allotments.\nResolved to go along with the majority despite her personal misgivings, Mui had been to buy a road-map. She had been able to get a ten percent discount, which impressed Chen, though Lily felt a bit insulted by Mui's lack of faith in her navigating abilities.\nWithin an hour of stepping over the newspapers and out of the front door, they were looking at the English Channel. Lily had driven impeccably. Even Mui, sitting in the back ready to give directions, one hand on the cross-braces of Man Kee's rompers as he pressed his nose against the window, had to grant this. On the road Lily had actually overtaken a couple of laggard vehicles with immense verve and such timing that Mui had pressed her lips closely together against her own protest. Chen went as far as applauding.\nNow, after coming through the gasworks of this seaside town (reassuring, familiar sight), past the lagoon and its miniature motor boats, they were moving smoothly along the empty promenade. Lily parked in a small street off the sea front which was full of empty bays.\nShe was unclear about the meanings of the various roadmarkings and preferred to pay a fee rather than risk being towed away. Or even being served with a summons. Might this evidence of basic prudence set Mui's mind at rest? On the way down Lily had several times observed her elder sister's taut face in the driving mirror, which she used with great frequency. Perhaps it would be best not to put worries in Mui's mind which would not have occurred to her in the first place. Lily personally locked all the van doors and meticulously tested each in turn.\n'Don't worry,' Chen joked. 'No one will want that heap of tin.' The girls bristled. Lily accused her husband of ingratitude. Mui rebuked him for being proud and too readily deceived by appearances.\nTaken aback, Chen took Man Kee ahead of the two sisters to look at the grey barbarian sea. He perched Son on the top railing and put his arms around his stomach. Man Kee was a soft, warm, and what was more, these days an increasingly responsive bundle. He reacted by putting his hand, a tiny replica of the shape of Chen's, with its broad palm and stubby fingers, on his father's sleeve.\nAnd it was in that moment that Chen resolved to bring Son up his way. He would have an education in figures (Chen's own weak point) and grow up to own many restaurants, gaining experience in all aspects of the trade on the way. The sombre sea put Chen in a pleasing melancholy as he planned Man Kee's career.\nThere was a trail of smoke just before the horizon met the sea in a thin line and then, suddenly shimmering in the glitter of the rising morning sun on the metal waves, a hull; and in a small cute of the railings was a grey telescope. The sparkle of the water instantly altered Chen's mood.\nHe put a coin in the slot and trained the glass on the ship. He was unable to find it at first, although he had aimed off carefully with the gun-sight on top of the barrel. Chen swung the tube in wide circles. There it was! Gone again. Chen swivelled the instrument more carefully. Now he had it in the centre of the circle, surprisingly large, red, and very rusty with a small bow wave: tramp steamer.\nChen lifted Man Kee to the eyepiece. 'Do you see the ship, Son?' he asked softly. 'It is a special little ship for people like us, Son. It is very little and very old but that is only what strangers see. We know better, don't we, Son, because it is the ship that will take us all back home when we are finished here. It will take you to your homeland, Son, which you have never seen.'\nChen kissed the top of Man Kee's head. Behind him now were Lily and Mui. Lily put her arm round Husband's shoulders. 'The little old ship,' said Chen. 'Let your mother see, Son.'\nMan Kee would not be parted from the telescope and when he had been persuaded to relinquish his grip the whirring inside the mounting had stopped and all Lily could see was a quivering opaque circle of white light with a scratched surface. By the time Chen had found a second coin the ship was over the horizon and Lily was left with a view of seagulls scavenging gash in the wake.", 'label': '5'}
{'text': "The Vienna Assignment\n\nI was in Vienna to take photographs. That was generally the reason I was anywhere then. Photographs were more than my livelihood. They were part of my life. The way light fell on a surface never failed to tug at my imagination. The way one picture, a single snapshot, could capture the essence of a time and place, a city, a human being, was embedded in my consciousness.\nOne day, one second, I might close the shutter on the perfect photograph. There was always the chance, so long as there was film in my camera. Finish one, load another, and keep looking, with eyes wide open. That was my code. Had been for a long time.\nI'd come close once, when some weird aptness in the knotted shape of a smoke plume from a burning oil well made my picture the one newspapers and magazines all over the world suddenly wanted. Brief glory from an even briefer moment. Just luck, really. But they say you make your own - the bad as well as the good.\nI went freelance after that, which should have been a clever move and would probably have worked out that way, but for life beyond the lens taking a few wrong turnings. The mid-nineties weren't quite the string of triumphs I'd foreseen when my defining image made it to the cover of Time magazine. That's why I was in Vienna, rather than anywhere even faintly newsworthy.\nBut, still, I was taking photographs. And I was being paid to do it. It didn't sound bad to me. The assignment was actually a piece of happenstance. I'd done the London shots for a glossy coffee-table picture book: Four Cities in Four Seasons - London, Paris, Rome, Vienna, a European co-publishing venture that netted me a juicy commission to hang round moody locations in my home city in spring, summer, autumn, and winter. I'd given my own particular slant to daffodils in Hyde Park and heat haze and traffic fumes in Piccadilly.\nI'd also reconciled myself to the best and truest of what I'd delivered being tossed aside. It was, after all, only a picture book. It wasn't meant to challenge anyone's preconceptions or make them see instead of look.\nIt was just after an obliging cold snap over Christmas and New Year that I handed in my London-in-winter batch and got the message that the Austrian photographer, Rudi Schussner, had walked out on the job in Vienna for reasons nobody seemed to think I needed to know about. Rather than call in someone new, they offered me the substitute's role.\nThe Austrian publishers had liked what they'd seen of my stuff, apparently. Besides, I was free, whereas the French and Italian photographers weren't. And I was glad to go. Things at home weren't great. They were a long way short of that. A week snapping snowy Vienna didn't have to be dressed up as a compliment to my artistry for me to go like a shot.\nThey put me up at the Europa, on Neuer Markt, in the heart of the old city. I'd last been to Vienna for a long weekend with my wife: a midsummer tourist scramble round just about every palace and museum in the joint. It had been hot, hectic and none too memorable. I hadn't even taken many photographs. On my own, in a cold hard January, it was going to be different, though.\nI knew that the moment I climbed off the shuttle bus from the airport and let my eyes and brain absorb the pinky-grey dome of light over the snow-sugared roofs of the city. I was going to enjoy myself here. I was going to take some great pictures.\nThe first day I didn't even try. I rode the trams round the Ringstrasse, getting on and off as I pleased to sample the moods of the place. The weather was set, frozen like the vast baroque remnants of the redundant empire that had laid the city out. I hadn't seen what Schussner had done with spring, summer or autumn. I hadn't wanted to.\nThis was going to be my Vienna, not his. And it was going to give itself to me. I just had to let it come. A photograph is a moment. But you have to wait for the moment to arrive. So I bided my time and looked and looked until I could see clearly. And then I was ready.\nNext morning, I was out at dawn. Snow flurries overnight meant Stephansplatz would be virginally white as well as virtually deserted. I hadn't figured out how to cope with the cathedral in one shot. Its spire stretched like a giraffe's neck into the silver-grey sky, but at ground level it was elephantine, squatting massively in the centre of the city. Probably there was no way to do it. I'd have to settle for something partial. In that weather, at that time, it could still be magical. But then, there's always been something magical about photography.\nIt certainly seemed that way to the nineteenth-century pioneers, before the chemistry of it was properly understood. Pictures develop and strengthen and hold by an agency of their own. You can stand in a darkened room and watch a blank sheet of paper become a photograph.\nAnd even when you know why it happens you don't lose the sense of its mystery. That stays with you for ever. Perhaps that's why what happened at Stephansplatz that morning failed in some strange way to surprise me.", 'label': '5'}
{'text': "Garbage in, garbage out\n\nCharging families for each bag of rubbish they produce seems environmentally sound and economically sensible. It may not be.\n\nSome rituals of modern domestic living vary little throughout the developed world. One such is the municipal refuse collection: at regular intervals, rubbish bags or the contents of rubbish bins disappear into the bowels of a special lorry and are carried away to the local tip.\nTo economists, this ceremony is peculiar, because in most places it is free. Yes, households pay for the service out of local taxes but the family that fills four bins with rubbish each week pays no more than the elderly couple that fills one.\nYet the cost of rubbish disposal is not zero at all. The more rubbish people throw away, the more rubbish collectors and trucks are needed, and the more the local authorities have to pay in landfill and tipping fees. This looks like the most basic of economic problems: if rubbish disposal is free, people will produce too much rubbish.\nThe obvious solution is to make households pay the marginal cost of disposing of their waste. That will give them an incentive to throw out less and recycle more (assuming that local governments provide collection points for suitable materials).\nBut as Don Fullerton and Thomas Kinnaman, two American economists, have found, what appears to be the logical approach to an everyday problem has surprisingly intricate and sometimes disappointing results.\nResearch focused on several American towns and cities which, in the past few years, have started charging households for generating rubbish. The commonest system is to sell stickers or tags which householders attach to rubbish bags or cans. Only bags with these labels are picked up in the weekly collection. \nIn a paper published last year Messrs Fullerton and Kinnaman concentrated on the effects of one such scheme, introduced in July 1992 in Charlottesville, Virginia, a town of about 40,000 people. Residents were charged 80 cents for each tagged bag of rubbish. This may sound like sensible use of market forces. In fact, the authors conclude, the schemes benefits did not cover the cost of printing materials, the commissions to sellers and the wages of the people running the scheme.\nTrue, the number of bags or cans did fall sharply, by 37%. But this was largely thanks to the 'Seattle stomp', a frantic dance first noticed when that distant city introduced rubbish pricing. Rather than buy more tags, people simply crammed more garbage - about 40% more -- into each container by jumping on it if necessary.\nAs we all know, such compacting is done better by machines at landfill sites than by individuals, however enthusiastically. The weight of rubbish collected (a better indicator of disposal costs than volume) fell by a modest 14% in Charlottesville. In 25 other Virginian cities where no pricing scheme was in place, and which were used as a rough-and-ready control group, it fell by 3.5% in any case.\nLess pleasing still, some people resorted to illegal dumping rather than pay to have their rubbish removed. This is hard to measure directly but the authors guess that illegal dumping may account for 30-40% of the reduction in collected rubbish.\nThe one bright spot in the whole experience seems to have been a 15% increase in the weight of materials recycled, suggesting that people chose to recycle (which is free) rather than pay to have their refuse carted away. But the fee may have little to do with the growth in recycling, as many citizens were already participating in Charlottesville's voluntary scheme.\nIn a more recent study, Messrs Fullerton and Kinnaman explore the economics of rubbish in more detail. One conclusion from this broader study is that pricing does reduce the weight of rubbish - but not by much. On average, a 10% increase in sticker prices cuts quantity only by 0.3%.\nThis figure is lower than in other studies covering fewer towns, but is it so surprising? To reduce their output of rubbish by a lot, people would have to buy less of just about everything. A tax of a few cents on the week's garbage seems unlikely to make much difference.\nIf that's the case, it seems worth considering whether other factors, such as income and education, matter every bit as much as price. In richer towns, for example, people throw out more rubbish than in poorer ones and they have less time for recycling.\nShould we conclude that the idea of charging households for the rubbish they produce is daft? Not at all: free disposal after all is surely too cheap. But the effects of seemingly simple policies are often complex. Intricate economic models are often needed to sort them out. And sometimes, the results of this rummaging do not smell sweet.", 'label': '5'}
{'text': 'HE WAS A PEOPLE PERSON\n\nAmerican executives are adopting the polar explorer Ernest Shackleton as a model of good management. Eluned Price reports.\n\nMost people in Britain know who Sir Ernest Shackleton was and have a rough idea of what he did. America, however, has only just discovered him - although the Wall Street Journal\'s description of Shackleton earlier this year as \'an Antarctic explorer whose beats went all but unnoticed for most of the 20th century\' is taking things too far. But now the Americans are making up for lost time with powerful enthusiasm. Biographies and accounts of the voyage of the Endurance are in production and are expected to spring off the shells as fast as they are stacked; the American Museum of Natural History is mounting a grand exhibition, and Columbia Tristar is preparing a film based on Shackleton\'s life.\nSome American managers have also adopted Shackleton as icon and exemplar. His sell-appointed apostles recount the details of his deeds with awe; they extract lessons in leadership and communications as parables for spin doctors, and insiders refer to each other as \'speaking Shackleton\'. The determined, resourceful Shackleton, with his reindeer sleeping bag (fur inside) and blubber-stove has become a model for modern management consultants.\nJim MacGregor, the managing partner of Abernathy MacGregor Frank in New York, took Shackleton for a role model years ago. His firm specialises in \'communication aspects of mergers and acquisitions and corporate crises\'. Such as? Such as \'this firm\'s plant blew up\' or \'half the workforce has to go\'. While not forgetting that Shackleton served time in public relations for a Glasgow steel works, it may be a trifle difficult to spot instantly the relevance of eking out the last bit of albatross in sub-zero temperatures to putting a spin on a derivatives trading disaster for the Internet.\n\'Even if a company manages its crises beautifully, it can still do a lot of harm by communicating sadly about what it\'s doing,\' says MacGregor. \'Shackleton is a model for management because of his qualities as a leader and communicator. He had his values in order. he was at his best when he and those dependent on him had a great deal to lose -- such as their lives. In some ways the most fascinating decision Shackleton made was to turn back when only 97 miles from the South Pole. That trip explained his credibility for the next one: the lives of his men were paramount.\' This refers to Shackleton\'s expedition to reach the South Pole in 1908 when, 97 miles short of their objective, with unforeseen delays draining their supplies and limited time to get back to their ship, Shackleton made the courageous and difficult decision to turn hack.\nIn a crisis, says MacGregor, people want to know someone is in charge. Whereas now the tendency is for managers to duck and squirm, Shackleton was prepared to stand up and accept responsibility. His 1914 expedition was the one that became the stuff of legend. His ship, the Endurance, drifted for nine months in the pack ice and was finally crushed by ice floes. When it finally went down, Shackleton told his men, \'we should all eventually reach safety provided that you continue to do your utmost and to trust me\'. From all the accounts and diaries the then kept, it is clear that there was never a time that the Boss was not in charge. \'Shackleton thought everything through, planned for every eventuality, kept his men continually informed and sought their opinions,\' says MacGregor. \'He was adaptable, willing to let go when something was lost and start afresh. We\'ve built an effective set of principles here that Shackleton illustrates. Clients can relate to his story without feeling thry\'re being criticised.\'\nShackleton believed that an explorer needs optimism, physical endurance and patience. \'One of the hardest things to do in desperate straits is notating, especially in America, a culture that is fanatically opposed to letting time sort things out,\' says MacGregor. \'If you buy bonds and guess wrong on the interest rates, you hang in there and eventually you\'ll get your money back. To "fix it" and sell up would mean a huge loss. Equally, don\'t be afraid to change your plans if they\'re not working. If a new product\'s a stinker, don\'t keep selling it.\'\nShackleton led by example. On the voyage back from the Endurance, he noticed Hurley, the expedition photographer, gloveless. He forced his own on Hurley, saying if he didn\'t put them on he would throw them overboard. Someone else remembered him doing the same thing with a biscuit when they were near starving on the 1905 expeditions: \'He said he\'d leave it in the snow. Millions of pounds couldn\'t have bought that biscuit.\' As Caroline Alexander, author of Endurance, the human account of that expedition, says: \'The public appetite for heroic endeavour is increasing. Shackleton exposes the fact that there is nothing heroic going on now. Everything else falls away and he is left standing, the genuine embodiment of the ideals that we are so wistful for nowadays.\'\n', 'label': '5'}
{'text': "Build it yourself at the UK's first bamboo bike workshop \n\nA course at the Bamboo Bike Club, run by engineers James Marr and Ian McMillan, buys you a computer-designed custom frame plus a fun weekend of bike-building. \n\nIt's Saturday morning in Hackney Wick, east London, and apart from a mechanic deep in the bowels of a truck, the only sign of life among the small factories on a backstreet is a whine of machinery from an upper window - work has begun at Bamboo Bike Club, Britain's only bamboo bike-building course. I've gone along to watch the action. \nThere's a sense of energy and industry. And of fun. Woodwork class was never like this. Bamboo is one of the most interesting trends to emerge in bike construction. Names like Californian manufacturer Calfee Design or Yorkshire's Bamboo Bikes have revived a construction method pioneered as early as 1894. The problem for most cyclists is the price. A ready-made bamboo frame from these companies retails for $2,995, or PS1,868. \nIt was this, plus the design challenge, that led James and Ian to spend years cooped up in a shed in Brecon, Wales. Their idea was to establish a boutique bamboo bike business with products within reach of the average cyclist. \nOnly after they had refined their research into a marketable product - James now tosses out phrases like 'close-noded thick-wall tubes' while talking about bamboo - did they realise they were on the wrong track. 'We realised we didn't want just to sell frames. We wanted to share the joy of making something; the craft of creating something unique and sustainable,' James explains. \nThe outcome was something more community than company, and as such, the Bamboo Bike Club is still an occupation sandwiched between full-time jobs - James makes wind turbines and Ian is a civil engineer. But they seem to be on the right track, with monthly courses whose competitive price buys you a computer-designed custom bike frame plus a fun weekend of bike-building. \nThe question for me, a king of the botch job - my terrible handiwork failures litter my house - was about quality. On day one, the boys explain how to select bamboo for strength and how to form strong joints before tubes are glued lightly in place in the workshop: first the front triangle composed of 40 mm diameter bamboo; then the thinner, more fiddly seat and the chain assembly. Alloy tubes are inserted for the handlebars, wheel forks and other parts which require the strength and precise engineering impossible in bamboo. \nAll this, together with the technical skill involved in using jigs, power tools and design blueprints, is a leap of faith for someone whose idea of DIY is flatpack furniture assembly. Accurate cutting for a clean joint can be tricky, for example. \nJames and Ian buzz cheerfully between workbenches, supervising every cut, triple-checking every joint, and will take over if a task seems insurmountable. The self-build is half the attraction for most participants; it may be no coincidence that all those on this course were engineers. For the rest of us, Ian reassures that everyone messes up once or twice. \nNo problem - just get another piece and have another go. Such is the benefit of bamboo. Each length has been pre-checked for quality, so you get to indulge in frame aesthetics: plain bamboo, black or mottled. \nSunday is a more relaxed day, mainly spent building the lugs. Or rather, wraps: hemp bindings wrapped around the joints and dropouts then glued with epoxy resin to form a strong bond that disperses loads evenly throughout the frame. With a final polymer coating for waterproofing, the bike is ready for wheels, brakes, gears, saddle and any other individual touches. And it is a bike built for the long haul, just as strong, the pair claim, as its metal equivalents. \nIan has ridden his for over a year on a 16-mile commute, while James has failed to destroy one bike off-road over three months of testing. 'To be honest, our bikes are over-engineered - we use larger diameter tubes and over-thick bindings - but I prefer it like that,' James says. \nTechnical issues aside, how good does a bamboo bike look? Somewhat scruffy alongside professional frames, it turns out - the hemp weave can look a bit like parcel tape, for example. But there's no denying their individuality and that, say James and Ian, is the point. \nPersonally though, I believe that any bicycle made from this kind of material should be a relaxed affair, something for cruising sedately around on rather than racing. I therefore plump for a frame that avoids the stiff angularity of my existing metal machine: a 'Classic English' giving a gentle, easy-going ride. \nThey also cycle well. I take James's bike for a spin and the ride is light, stiff and smooth thanks to bamboo's ability to dampen vibration. Impressive, considering I target every pothole. 'Some people love the build, but for me these workshops come together when the bike is on the road,' James says. 'They're so light, so effortless to ride. So much fun to ride too - take a Harley-style retro bike, add 10 and you're still not close.' And the price? Less than PS500. ", 'label': '5'}
